<lang="en">
<page="en-10">
<text>
   Skip to main content

   IFRAME:
   https://tag-manager.frontiersin.org/ns.html?id=GTM-5SXX286&amp;gtm_auth=u-n
   -7MEC83-lilAhi0fqhQ&amp;gtm_preview=env-1&amp;gtm_cookies_win=x

     * (BUTTON) Download Article
       Download Article
          + Download PDF
          + ReadCube
          + EPUB
          + XML (NLM)
       (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
       Share on
          +
          +
          +
       (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
       Export citation
          + EndNote
          + Reference Manager
          + Simple TEXT file
          + BibTex
       (BUTTON)

     * Total views
     * Downloads
     * Citations

   Citation numbers are available from Dimensions
   View article impact
     * View altmetric score

SHARE ON

     *
     *
     *

Edited by

Esma Aïmeur

   Montreal University, Canada

Reviewed by

Ranilson O. Paiva

   Federal University of Alagoas, Brazil

Cesar Collazos

   University of Cauca, Colombia

TABLE OF CONTENTS

     *
          + Abstract
          + Introduction: Artificial and Human Intelligence, Worlds of
            Difference
          + We Are Probably Not so Smart as We Think
          + General Intelligence Is Not the Same as Human-like
            Intelligence
          + The Impact of Multiple Narrow AI Technology
          + Conclusions and Framework
          + Author Contributions
          + Conflict of Interest
          + Acknowledgments
          + Footnotes
          + References

     * (BUTTON) Export citation
          + EndNote
          + Reference Manager
          + Simple TEXT file
          + BibTex

   Check for updates

People also looked at

CONCEPTUAL ANALYSIS article

   Front. Artif. Intell., 25 March 2021
   Sec. AI for Human Learning and Behavior Change
   Volume 4 - 2021 | https://doi.org/10.3389/frai.2021.622364

Human- versus Artificial Intelligence

   www.frontiersin.org J. E. (Hans). Korteling* www.frontiersin.org G. C.
   van de Boer-Visschedijk www.frontiersin.org R. A. M. Blankendaal
   www.frontiersin.org R. C. Boonekamp www.frontiersin.org A. R. Eikelboom
     * TNO Human Factors, Soesterberg, Netherlands

   AI is one of the most debated subjects of today and there seems little
   common understanding concerning the differences and similarities of
   human intelligence and artificial intelligence. Discussions on many
   relevant topics, such as trustworthiness, explainability, and ethics
   are characterized by implicit anthropocentric and anthropomorphistic
   conceptions and, for instance, the pursuit of human-like intelligence
   as the golden standard for Artificial Intelligence. In order to provide
   more agreement and to substantiate possible future research objectives,
   this paper presents three notions on the similarities and differences
   between human- and artificial intelligence: 1) the fundamental
   constraints of human (and artificial) intelligence, 2) human
   intelligence as one of many possible forms of general intelligence, and
   3) the high potential impact of multiple (integrated) forms of
   narrow-hybrid AI applications. For the time being, AI systems will have
   fundamentally different cognitive qualities and abilities than
   biological systems. For this reason, a most prominent issue is how we
   can use (and “collaborate” with) these systems as effectively as
   possible? For what tasks and under what conditions, decisions are safe
   to leave to AI and when is human judgment required? How can we
   capitalize on the specific strengths of human- and artificial
   intelligence? How to deploy AI systems effectively to complement and
   compensate for the inherent constraints of human cognition (and vice
   versa)? Should we pursue the development of AI “partners” with human
   (-level) intelligence or should we focus more at supplementing human
   limitations? In order to answer these questions, humans working with AI
   systems in the workplace or in policy making have to develop an
   adequate mental model of the underlying ‘psychological’ mechanisms of
   AI. So, in order to obtain well-functioning human-AI systems,
   Intelligence Awareness in humans should be addressed more vigorously.
   For this purpose a first framework for educational content is proposed.

Introduction: Artificial and Human Intelligence, Worlds of Difference

Artificial General Intelligence at the Human Level

   Recent advances in information technology and in AI may allow for more
   coordination and integration between of humans and technology.
   Therefore, quite some attention has been devoted to the development of
   Human-Aware AI, which aims at AI that adapts as a “team member” to the
   cognitive possibilities and limitations of the human team members. Also
   metaphors like “mate,” “partner,” “alter ego,” “Intelligent
   Collaborator,” “buddy” and “mutual understanding” emphasize a high
   degree of collaboration, similarity, and equality in “hybrid teams”.
   When human-aware AI partners operate like “human collaborators” they
   must be able to sense, understand, and react to a wide range of complex
   human behavioral qualities, like attention, motivation, emotion,
   creativity, planning, or argumentation, (e.g. Krämer et al., 2012; van
   den Bosch and Bronkhorst, 2018; van den Bosch et al., 2019). Therefore
   these “AI partners,” or “team mates” have to be endowed with human-like
   (or humanoid) cognitive abilities enabling mutual understanding and
   collaboration (i.e. “human awareness”).

   However, no matter how intelligent and autonomous AI agents become in
   certain respects, at least for the foreseeable future, they probably
   will remain unconscious machines or special-purpose devices that
   support humans in specific, complex tasks. As digital machines they are
   equipped with a completely different operating system (digital vs
   biological) and with correspondingly different cognitive qualities and
   abilities than biological creatures, like humans and other animals
   (Moravec, 1988; Klein et al., 2004; Korteling et al., 2018a;
   Shneiderman, 2020a). In general, digital reasoning- and problem-solving
   agents only compare very superficially to their biological
   counterparts, (e.g. Boden, 2017; Shneiderman, 2020b). Keeping that in
   mind, it becomes more and more important that human professionals
   working with advanced AI systems, (e.g. in military‐ or policy making
   teams) develop a proper mental model about the different cognitive
   capacities of AI systems in relation to human cognition. This issue
   will become increasingly relevant when AI systems become more advanced
   and are deployed with higher degrees of autonomy. Therefore, the
   present paper tries to provide some more clarity and insight into the
   fundamental characteristics, differences and idiosyncrasies of
   human/biological and artificial/digital intelligences. In the final
   section, a global framework for constructing educational content on
   this “Intelligence Awareness” is introduced. This can be used for the
   development of education and training programs for humans who have to
   use or “collaborate with” advanced AI systems in the near and far
   future.

   With the application of AI systems with increasing autonomy more and
   more researchers consider the necessity of vigorously addressing the
   real complex issues of “human-level intelligence” and more broadly
   artificial general intelligence, or AGI, (e.g. Goertzel et al., 2014).
   Many different definitions of A(G)I have already been proposed, (e.g.
   Russell and Norvig, 2014 for an overview). Many of them boil down to:
   technology containing or entailing (human-like) intelligence, (e.g.
   Kurzweil, 1990). This is problematic. Most definitions use the term
   “intelligence”, as an essential element of the definition itself, which
   makes the definition tautological. Second, the idea that A(G)I should
   be human-like seems unwarranted. At least in natural environments there
   are many other forms and manifestations of highly complex and
   intelligent behaviors that are very different from specific human
   cognitive abilities (see Grind, 1997 for an overview). Finally, like
   what is also frequently seen in the field of biology, these A(G)I
   definitions use human intelligence as a central basis or analogy for
   reasoning about the—less familiar—phenomenon of A(G)I (Coley and
   Tanner, 2012). Because of the many differences between the underlying
   substrate and architecture of biological and artificial intelligence
   this anthropocentric way of reasoning is probably unwarranted. For
   these reasons we propose a (non-anthropocentric) definition of
   “intelligence” as: “the capacity to realize complex goals” (Tegmark,
   2017). These goals may pertain to narrow, restricted tasks (narrow AI)
   or to broad task domains (AGI). Building on this definition, and on a
   definition of AGI proposed by Bieger et al. (2014) and one of Grind
   (1997), we define AGI here as: “Non-biological capacities to
   autonomously and efficiently achieve complex goals in a wide range of
   environments”. AGI systems should be able to identify and extract the
   most important features for their operation and learning process
   automatically and efficiently over a broad range of tasks and contexts.
   Relevant AGI research differs from the ordinary AI research by
   addressing the versatility and wholeness of intelligence, and by
   carrying out the engineering practice according to a system comparable
   to the human mind in a certain sense (Bieger et al., 2014).

   It will be fascinating to create copies of ourselves which can learn
   iteratively by interaction with partners and thus become able to
   collaborate on the basis of common goals and mutual understanding and
   adaptation, (e.g.Bradshaw et al., 2012; Johnson et al., 2014). This
   would be very useful, for example when a high degree of social
   intelligence of AI will contribute to more adequate interactions with
   humans, for example in health care or for entertainment purposes
   (Wyrobek et al., 2008). True collaboration on the basis of common goals
   and mutual understanding necessarily implies some form of humanoid
   general intelligence. For the time being, this remains a goal on a
   far-off horizon. In the present paper we argue why for most
   applications it also may not be very practical or necessary (and
   probably a bit misleading) to vigorously aim or to anticipate on
   systems possessing “human-like” AGI or “human-like” abilities or
   qualities. The fact that humans possess general intelligence does not
   imply that new inorganic forms of general intelligence should comply to
   the criteria of human intelligence. In this connection, the present
   paper addresses the way we think about (natural and artificial)
   intelligence in relation to the most probable potentials (and real
   upcoming issues) of AI in the short- and mid-term future. This will
   provide food for thought in anticipation of a future that is difficult
   to predict for a field as dynamic as AI.

What Is “Real Intelligence”?

   Implicit in our aspiration of constructing AGI systems possessing
   humanoid intelligence is the premise that human (general) intelligence
   is the “real” form of intelligence. This is even already implicitly
   articulated in the term “Artificial Intelligence”, as if it were not
   entirely real, i.e., real like non-artificial (biological)
   intelligence. Indeed, as humans we know ourselves as the entities with
   the highest intelligence ever observed in the Universe. And as an
   extension of this, we like to see ourselves as rational beings who are
   able to solve a wide range of complex problems under all kinds of
   circumstances using our experience and intuition, supplemented by the
   rules of logic, decision analysis and statistics. It is therefore not
   surprising that we have some difficulty to accept the idea that we
   might be a bit less smart than we keep on telling ourselves, i.e., “the
   next insult for humanity” (van Belkom, 2019). This goes as far that the
   rapid progress in the field of artificial intelligence is accompanied
   by a recurring redefinition of what should be considered “real
   (general) intelligence.” The conceptualization of intelligence, that
   is, the ability to autonomously and efficiently achieve complex goals,
   is then continuously adjusted and further restricted to: “those things
   that only humans can do.” In line with this, AI is then defined as “the
   study of how to make computers do things at which, at the moment,
   people are better” (Rich and Knight, 1991; Rich et al., 2009). This
   includes thinking of creative solutions, flexibly using contextual- and
   background information, the use of intuition and feeling, the ability
   to really “think and understand,” or the inclusion of emotion in an
   (ethical) consideration. These are then cited as the specific elements
   of real intelligence, (e.g. Bergstein, 2017). For instance, Facebook’s
   director of AI and a spokesman in the field, Yann LeCun, mentioned at a
   Conference at MIT on the Future of Work that machines are still far
   from having “the essence of intelligence.” That includes the ability to
   understand the physical world well enough to make predictions about
   basic aspects of it—to observe one thing and then use background
   knowledge to figure out what other things must also be true. Another
   way of saying this is that machines don’t have common sense (Bergstein,
   2017), like submarines that cannot swim (van Belkom, 2019). When
   exclusive human capacities become our pivotal navigation points on the
   horizon we may miss some significant problems that may need our
   attention first.

   To make this point clear, we first will provide some insight into the
   basic nature of both human and artificial intelligence. This is
   necessary for the substantiation of an adequate awareness of
   intelligence (Intelligence Awareness), and adequate research and
   education anticipating the development and application of A(G)I. For
   the time being, this is based on three essential notions that can (and
   should) be further elaborated in the near future.

   • With regard to cognitive tasks, we are probably less smart than we
   think. So why should we vigorously focus on human-like AGI?

   • Many different forms of intelligence are possible and general
   intelligence is therefore not necessarily the same as humanoid general
   intelligence (or “AGI on human level”).

   • AGI is often not necessary; many complex problems can also be tackled
   effectively using multiple narrow AI’s.^1

We Are Probably Not so Smart as We Think

   How intelligent are we actually? The answer to that question is
   determined to a large extent by the perspective from which this issue
   is viewed, and thus by the measures and criteria for intelligence that
   is chosen. For example, we could compare the nature and capacities of
   human intelligence with other animal species. In that case we appear
   highly intelligent. Thanks to our enormous learning capacity, we have
   by far the most extensive arsenal of cognitive abilities^2 to
   autonomously solve complex problems and achieve complex objectives.
   This way we can solve a huge variety of arithmetic, conceptual,
   spatial, economic, socio-organizational, political, etc. problems. The
   primates—which differ only slightly from us in genetic terms—are far
   behind us in that respect. We can therefore legitimately qualify
   humans, as compared to other animal species that we know, as highly
   intelligent.

Limited Cognitive Capacity

   However, we can also look beyond this “relative interspecies
   perspective” and try to qualify our intelligence in more absolute
   terms, i.e., using a scale ranging from zero to what is physically
   possible. For example, we could view the computational capacity of a
   human brain as a physical system (Bostrom, 2014; Tegmark, 2017). The
   prevailing notion in this respect among AI scientists is that
   intelligence is ultimately a matter of information and computation, and
   (thus) not of flesh and blood and carbon atoms. In principle, there is
   no physical law preventing that physical systems (consisting of quarks
   and atoms, like our brain) can be built with a much greater computing
   power and intelligence than the human brain. This would imply that
   there is no insurmountable physical reason why machines one day cannot
   become much more intelligent than ourselves in all possible respects
   (Tegmark, 2017). Our intelligence is therefore relatively high compared
   to other animals, but in absolute terms it may be very limited in its
   physical computing capacity, albeit only by the limited size of our
   brain and its maximal possible number of neurons and glia cells, (e.g.
   Kahle, 1979).

   To further define and assess our own (biological) intelligence, we can
   also discuss the evolution and nature of our biological thinking
   abilities. As a biological neural network of flesh and blood, necessary
   for survival, our brain has undergone an evolutionary optimization
   process of more than a billion years. In this extended period, it
   developed into a highly effective and efficient system for regulating
   essential biological functions and performing perceptive-motor and
   pattern-recognition tasks, such as gathering food, fighting and
   flighting, and mating. Almost during our entire evolution, the neural
   networks of our brain have been further optimized for these basic
   biological and perceptual motor processes that also lie at the basis of
   our daily practical skills, like cooking, gardening, or household jobs.
   Possibly because of the resulting proficiency for these kinds of tasks
   we may forget that these processes are characterized by extremely high
   computational complexity, (e.g. Moravec, 1988). For example, when we
   tie our shoelaces, many millions of signals flow in and out through a
   large number of different sensor systems, from tendon bodies and muscle
   spindles in our extremities to our retina, otolithic organs and
   semi-circular channels in the head, (e.g. Brodal, 1981). This enormous
   amount of information from many different perceptual-motor systems is
   continuously, parallel, effortless and even without conscious
   attention, processed in the neural networks of our brain (Minsky, 1986;
   Moravec, 1988; Grind, 1997). In order to achieve this, the brain has a
   number of universal (inherent) working mechanisms, such as association
   and associative learning (Shatz, 1992; Bar, 2007), potentiation and
   facilitation (Katz and Miledi, 1968; Bao et al., 1997), saturation and
   lateral inhibition (Isaacson and Scanziani, 2011; Korteling et al.,
   2018a).

   These kinds of basic biological and perceptual-motor capacities have
   been developed and set down over many millions of years. Much later in
   our evolution—actually only very recently—our cognitive abilities and
   rational functions have started to develop. These cognitive abilities,
   or capacities, are probably less than 100 thousand years old, which may
   be qualified as “embryonal” on the time scale of evolution, (e.g.
   Petraglia and Korisettar, 1998; McBrearty and Brooks, 2000; Henshilwood
   and Marean, 2003). In addition, this very thin layer of human
   achievement has necessarily been built on these “ancient” neural
   intelligence for essential survival functions. So, our “higher”
   cognitive capacities are developed from and with these (neuro)
   biological regulation mechanisms (Damasio, 1994; Korteling and Toet,
   2020). As a result, it should not be a surprise that the capacities of
   our brain for performing these recent cognitive functions are still
   rather limited. These limitations are manifested in many different
   ways, for instance:

   ‐The amount of cognitive information that we can consciously process
   (our working memory, span or attention) is very limited (Simon, 1955).
   The capacity of our working memory is approximately 10–50 bits per
   second (Tegmark, 2017).

   ‐Most cognitive tasks, like reading text or calculation, require our
   full attention and we usually need a lot of time to execute them.
   Mobile calculators can perform millions times more complex calculations
   than we can (Tegmark, 2017).

   ‐Although we can process lots of information in parallel, we cannot
   simultaneously execute cognitive tasks that require deliberation and
   attention, i.e., “multi-tasking” (Korteling, 1994; Rogers and Monsell,
   1995; Rubinstein, Meyer, and Evans, 2001).

   ‐Acquired cognitive knowledge and skills of people (memory) tend to
   decay over time, much more than perceptual-motor skills. Because of
   this limited “retention” of information we easily forget substantial
   portions of what we have learned (Wingfield and Byrnes, 1981).

Ingrained Cognitive Biases

   Our limited processing capacity for cognitive tasks is not the only
   factor determining our cognitive intelligence. Except for an overall
   limited processing capacity, human cognitive information processing
   shows systematic distortions. These are manifested in many cognitive
   biases (Tversky and Kahneman, 1973, Tversky and Kahneman, 1974).
   Cognitive biases are systematic, universally occurring tendencies,
   inclinations, or dispositions that skew or distort information
   processes in ways that make their outcome inaccurate, suboptimal, or
   simply wrong, (e.g. Lichtenstein and Slovic, 1971; Tversky and
   Kahneman, 1981). Many biases occur in virtually the same way in many
   different decision situations (Shafir and LeBoeuf, 2002; Kahneman,
   2011; Toet et al., 2016). The literature provides descriptions and
   demonstrations of over 200 biases. These tendencies are largely
   implicit and unconscious and feel quite naturally and self/evident when
   we are aware of these cognitive inclinations (Pronin et al., 2002;
   Risen, 2015; Korteling et al., 2018b). That is why they are often
   termed “intuitive” (Kahneman and Klein, 2009) or “irrational” (Shafir
   and LeBoeuf, 2002). Biased reasoning can result in quite acceptable
   outcomes in natural or everyday situations, especially when the time
   cost of reasoning is taken into account (Simon, 1955; Gigerenzer and
   Gaissmaier, 2011). However, people often deviate from rationality
   and/or the tenets of logic, calculation, and probability in inadvisable
   ways (Tversky and Kahneman, 1974; Shafir and LeBoeuf, 2002) leading to
   suboptimal decisions in terms of invested time and effort (costs) given
   the available information and expected benefits.

   Biases are largely caused by inherent (or structural) characteristics
   and mechanisms of the brain as a neural network (Korteling et al.,
   2018a; Korteling and Toet, 2020). Basically, these mechanisms—such as
   association, facilitation, adaptation, or lateral inhibition—result in
   a modification of the original or available data and its processing,
   (e.g. weighting its importance). For instance, lateral inhibition is a
   universal neural process resulting in the magnification of differences
   in neural activity (contrast enhancement), which is very useful for
   perceptual-motor functions, maintaining physical integrity and
   allostasis, (i.e. biological survival functions). For these functions
   our nervous system has been optimized for millions of years. However,
   “higher” cognitive functions, like conceptual thinking, probability
   reasoning or calculation, have been developed only very recently in
   evolution. These functions are probably less than 100 thousand years
   old, and may, therefore, be qualified as “embryonal” on the time scale
   of evolution, (e.g. McBrearty and Brooks, 2000; Henshilwood and Marean,
   2003; Petraglia and Korisettar, 2003). In addition, evolution could not
   develop these new cognitive functions from scratch, but instead had to
   build this embryonal, and thin layer of human achievement from its
   “ancient” neural heritage for the essential biological survival
   functions (Moravec, 1988). Since cognitive functions typically require
   exact calculation and proper weighting of data, data
   transformations—like lateral inhibition—may easily lead to systematic
   distortions, (i.e. biases) in cognitive information processing.
   Examples of the large number of biases caused by the inherent
   properties of biological neural networks are: Anchoring bias (biasing
   decisions toward previously acquired information, Furnham and Boo,
   2011; Tversky and Kahneman, 1973, Tversky and Kahneman, 1974), the
   Hindsight bias (the tendency to erroneously perceive events as
   inevitable or more likely once they have occurred, Hoffrage et al.,
   2000; Roese and Vohs, 2012) the Availability bias (judging the
   frequency, importance, or likelihood of an event by the ease with which
   relevant instances come to mind, Tversky and Kahnemann, 1973; Tversky
   and Kahneman, 1974), and the Confirmation bias (the tendency to select,
   interpret, and remember information in a way that confirms one’s
   preconceptions, views, and expectations, Nickerson, 1998). In addition
   to these inherent (structural) limitations of (biological) neural
   networks, biases may also originate from functional evolutionary
   principles promoting the survival of our ancestors who, as
   hunter-gatherers, lived in small, close-knit groups (Haselton et al.,
   2005; Tooby and Cosmides, 2005). Cognitive biases can be caused by a
   mismatch between evolutionarily rationalized “heuristics”
   (“evolutionary rationality”: Haselton et al., 2009) and the current
   context or environment (Tooby and Cosmides, 2005). In this view, the
   same heuristics that optimized the chances of survival of our ancestors
   in their (natural) environment can lead to maladaptive (biased)
   behavior when they are used in our current (artificial) settings.
   Biases that have been considered as examples of this kind of mismatch
   are the Action bias (preferring action even when there is no rational
   justification to do this, Baron and Ritov, 2004; Patt and Zeckhauser,
   2000), Social proof (the tendency to mirror or copy the actions and
   opinions of others, Cialdini, 1984), the Tragedy of the commons
   (prioritizing personal interests over the common good of the community,
   Hardin, 1968), and the Ingroup bias (favoring one’s own group above
   that of others, Taylor and Doria, 1981).

   This hard-wired (neurally inherent and/or evolutionary ingrained)
   character of biased thinking makes it unlikely that simple and
   straightforward methods like training interventions or awareness
   courses will be very effective to ameliorate biases. This difficulty of
   bias mitigation seems indeed supported by the literature (Korteling et
   al., 2021).

General Intelligence Is Not the Same as Human-like Intelligence

Fundamental Differences Between Biological and Artificial Intelligence

   We often think and deliberate about intelligence with an
   anthropocentric conception of our own intelligence in mind as an
   obvious and unambiguous reference. We tend to use this conception as a
   basis for reasoning about other, less familiar phenomena of
   intelligence, such as other forms of biological and artificial
   intelligence (Coley and Tanner, 2012). This may lead to fascinating
   questions and ideas. An example is the discussion about how and when
   the point of “intelligence at human level” will be achieved. For
   instance, Ackermann. (2018) writes: “Before reaching superintelligence,
   general AI means that a machine will have the same cognitive
   capabilities as a human being”. So, researchers deliberate extensively
   about the point in time when we will reach general AI, (e.g., Goertzel,
   2007; Müller and Bostrom, 2016). We suppose that these kinds of
   questions are not quite on target. There are (in principle) many
   different possible types of (general) intelligence conceivable of which
   human-like intelligence is just one of those. This means, for example
   that the development of AI is determined by the constraint of physics
   and technology, and not by those of biological evolution. So, just as
   the intelligence of a hypothetical extraterrestrial visitor of our
   planet earth is likely to have a different (in-)organic structure with
   different characteristics, strengths, and weaknesses, than the human
   residents this will also apply to artificial forms of (general)
   intelligence. Below we briefly summarize a few fundamental differences
   between human and artificial intelligence (Bostrom, 2014):

   ‐Basic structure: Biological (carbon) intelligence is based on neural
   “wetware” which is fundamentally different from artificial
   (silicon-based) intelligence. As opposed to biological wetware, in
   silicon, or digital, systems “hardware” and “software” are independent
   of each other (Kosslyn and Koenig, 1992). When a biological system has
   learned a new skill, this will be bounded to the system itself. In
   contrast, if an AI system has learned a certain skill then the
   constituting algorithms can be directly copied to all other similar
   digital systems.

   ‐Speed: Signals from AI systems propagate with almost the speed of
   light. In humans, the conduction velocity of nerves proceeds with a
   speed of at most 120 m/s, which is extremely slow in the time scale of
   computers (Siegel and Sapru, 2005).

   ‐Connectivity and communication: People cannot directly communicate
   with each other. They communicate via language and gestures with
   limited bandwidth. This is slower and more difficult than the
   communication of AI systems that can be connected directly to each
   other. Thanks to this direct connection, they can also collaborate on
   the basis of integrated algorithms.

   ‐Updatability and scalability: AI systems have almost no constraints
   with regard to keep them up to date or to upscale and/or re-configure
   them, so that they have the right algorithms and the data processing
   and storage capacities necessary for the tasks they have to carry out.
   This capacity for rapid, structural expansion and immediate improvement
   hardly applies to people.

   ‐In contrast, biology does a lot with a little: organic brains are
   millions of times more efficient in energy consumption than computers.
   The human brain consumes less energy than a lightbulb, whereas a
   supercomputer with comparable computational performance uses enough
   electricity to power quite a village (Fischetti, 2011).

   These kinds of differences in basic structure, speed, connectivity,
   updatability, scalability, and energy consumption will necessarily also
   lead to different qualities and limitations between human and
   artificial intelligence. Our response speed to simple stimuli is, for
   example, many thousands of times slower than that of artificial
   systems. Computer systems can very easily be connected directly to each
   other and as such can be part of one integrated system. This means that
   AI systems do not have to be seen as individual entities that can
   easily work alongside each other or have mutual misunderstandings. And
   if two AI systems are engaged in a task then they run a minimal risk to
   make a mistake because of miscommunications (think of autonomous
   vehicles approaching a crossroad). After all, they are intrinsically
   connected parts of the same system and the same algorithm (Gerla et
   al., 2014).

Complexity and Moravec’s Paradox

   Because biological, carbon-based, brains and digital, silicon-based,
   computers are optimized for completely different kinds of tasks (e.g.,
   Moravec, 1988; Korteling et al., 2018b), human and artificial
   intelligence show fundamental and probably far-stretching differences.
   Because of these differences it may be very misleading to use our own
   mind as a basis, model or analogy for reasoning about AI. This may lead
   to erroneous conceptions, for example about the presumed abilities of
   humans and AI to perform complex tasks. Resulting flaws concerning
   information processing capacities emerge often in the psychological
   literature in which “complexity” and “difficulty” of tasks are used
   interchangeably (see for examples: Wood et al., 1987; McDowd and Craik,
   1988). Task complexity is then assessed in an anthropocentric way, that
   is: by the degree to which we humans can perform or master it. So, we
   use the difficulty to perform or master a task as a measure of its
   complexity, and task performance (speed, errors) as a measure of skill
   and intelligence of the task performer. Although this could sometimes
   be acceptable in psychological research, this may be misleading if we
   strive for understanding the intelligence of AI systems. For us it is
   much more difficult to multiply two random numbers of six digits than
   to recognize a friend on a photograph. But when it comes to counting or
   arithmetic operations, computers are thousands of times faster and
   better, while the same systems have only recently taken steps in image
   recognition (which only succeeded when deep learning technology, based
   on some principles of biological neural networks, was developed). In
   general: cognitive tasks that are relatively difficult for the human
   brain (and which we therefore find subjectively difficult) do not have
   to be computationally complex, (e.g., in terms of objective arithmetic,
   logic, and abstract operations). And vice versa: tasks that are
   relatively easy for the brain (recognizing patterns, perceptual-motor
   tasks, well-trained tasks) do not have to be computationally simple.
   This phenomenon, that which is easy for the ancient, neural
   “technology” of people and difficult for the modern, digital technology
   of computers (and vice versa) has been termed the moravec’s Paradox.
   Hans Moravec (1988) wrote: “It is comparatively easy to make computers
   exhibit adult level performance on intelligence tests or playing
   checkers, and difficult or impossible to give them the skills of a
   one-year-old when it comes to perception and mobility.”

Human Superior Perceptual-Motor Intelligence

   Moravec’s paradox implies that biological neural networks are
   intelligent in different ways than artificial neural networks.
   Intelligence is not limited to the problems or goals that we as humans,
   equipped with biological intelligence, find difficult (Grind, 1997).
   Intelligence, defined as the ability to realize complex goals or solve
   complex problems, is much more than that. According to Moravec (1988)
   high-level reasoning requires very little computation, but low-level
   perceptual-motor skills require enormous computational resources. If we
   express the complexity of a problem in terms of the number of
   elementary calculations needed to solve it, then our biological
   perceptual motor intelligence is highly superior to our cognitive
   intelligence. Our organic perceptual-motor intelligence is especially
   good at associative processing of higher-order invariants (“patterns”)
   in the ambient information. These are computationally more complex and
   contain more information than the simple, individual elements (Gibson,
   1966, Gibson, 1979). An example of our superior perceptual-motor
   abilities is the Object Superiority Effect: we perceive and interpret
   whole objects faster and more effective than the (more simple)
   individual elements that make up these objects (Weisstein and Harris,
   1974; McClelland, 1978; Williams and Weisstein, 1978; Pomerantz, 1981).
   Thus, letters are also perceived more accurately when presented as part
   of a word than when presented in isolation, i.e. the Word superiority
   effect, (e.g. Reicher, 1969; Wheeler, 1970). So, the difficulty of a
   task does not necessarily indicate its inherent complexity. As Moravec
   (1988) puts it: “We are all prodigious Olympians in perceptual and
   motor areas, so good that we make the difficult look easy. Abstract
   thought, though, is a new trick, perhaps less than 100 thousand years
   old. We have not yet mastered it. It is not all that intrinsically
   difficult; it just seems so when we do it.”

The Supposition of Human-like AGI

   So, if there would exist AI systems with general intelligence that can
   be used for a wide range of complex problems and objectives, those AGI
   machines would probably have a completely different intelligence
   profile, including other cognitive qualities, than humans have
   (Goertzel, 2007). This will be even so, if we manage to construct AI
   agents who display similar behavior like us and if they are enabled to
   adapt to our way of thinking and problem-solving in order to promote
   human-AI teaming. Unless we decide to deliberately degrade the
   capabilities of AI systems (which would not be very smart), the
   underlying capacities and abilities of man and machines with regard to
   collection and processing of information, data analysis, probability
   reasoning, logic, memory capacity etc. will still remain dissimilar.
   Because of these differences we should focus at systems that
   effectively complement us, and that make the human-AI system stronger
   and more effective. Instead of pursuing human-level AI it would be more
   beneficial to focus on autonomous machines and (support) systems that
   fill in, or extend on, the manifold gaps of human cognitive
   intelligence. For instance, whereas people are forced—by the slowness
   and other limitations of biological brains—to think heuristically in
   terms of goals, virtues, rules and norms expressed in (fuzzy) language,
   AI has already established excellent capacities to process and
   calculate directly on highly complex data. Therefore, or the execution
   of specific (narrow) cognitive tasks (logical, analytical,
   computational), modern digital intelligence may be more effective and
   efficient than biological intelligence. AI may thus help to produce
   better answers for complex problems using high amounts of data,
   consistent sets of ethical principles and goals, probabilistic-, and
   logic reasoning, (e.g. Korteling et al., 2018b). Therefore, we
   conjecture that ultimately the development of AI systems for supporting
   human decision making may appear the most effective way leading to the
   making of better choices or the development of better solutions on
   complex issues. So, the cooperation and division of tasks between
   people and AI systems will have to be primarily determinated by their
   mutually specific qualities. For example, tasks or task components that
   appeal to capacities in which AI systems excel, will have to be less
   (or less fully) mastered by people, so that less training will probably
   be required. AI systems are already much better than people at
   logically and arithmetically correct gathering (selecting) and
   processing (weighing, prioritizing, analyzing, combining) large amounts
   of data. They do this quickly, accurately and reliably. They are also
   more stable (consistent) than humans, have no stress and emotions and
   have a great perseverance and a much better retention of knowledge and
   skills than people. As a machine, they serve people completely and
   without any “self-interest” or “own hidden agenda.” Based on these
   qualities AI systems may effectively take over tasks, or task
   components, from people. However, it remains important that people
   continue to master those tasks to a certain extent, so that they can
   take over tasks or take adequate action if the machine system fails.

   In general, people are better suited than AI systems for a much broader
   spectrum of cognitive and social tasks under a wide variety of
   (unforeseen) circumstances and events (Korteling et al., 2018b). People
   are also better at the social-psychosocial interaction for the time
   being. For example, it is difficult for AI systems to interpret human
   language and -symbolism. This requires a very extensive frame of
   reference, which, at least until now and for the near future, is
   difficult to achieve within AI. As a result of all these differences,
   people are still better at responding (as a flexible team) to
   unexpected and unpredictable situations and creatively devising
   possibilities and solutions in open and ill-defined tasks and across a
   wide range of different, and possibly unexpected, circumstances. People
   will have to make extra use of their specific human qualities, (i.e.
   what people are relatively good at) and train to improve relevant
   competencies. In addition, human team members will have to learn to
   deal well with the overall limitations of AIs. With such a proper
   division of tasks, capitalizing on the specific qualities and
   limitations of humans and AI systems, human decisional biases may be
   circumvented and better performance may be expected. This means that
   enhancement of a team with intelligent machines having less cognitive
   constraints and biases, may have more surplus value than striving at
   collaboration between humans and AI that have developed the same
   (human) biases. Although cooperation in teams with AI systems may need
   extra training in order to effectively deal with this bias-mismatch,
   this heterogeneity will probably be better and safer. This also opens
   up the possibility of a combination of high levels of meaningful human
   control AND high levels of automation which is likely to produce the
   most effective and safe human-AI systems (Elands et al., 2019;
   Shneiderman, 2020a). In brief: human intelligence is not the golden
   standard for general intelligence; instead of aiming at human-like AGI,
   the pursuit of AGI should thus focus on effective digital/silicon AGI
   in conjunction with an optimal configuration and allocation of tasks.

Explainability and Trust

   Developments in relation to artificial learning, or deep
   (reinforcement) learning, in particular have been revolutionary. Deep
   learning simulates a network resembling the layered neural networks of
   our brain. Based on large quantities of data, the network learns to
   recognize patterns and links to a high level of accuracy and then
   connect them to courses of action without knowing the underlying causal
   links. This implies that it is difficult to provide deep learning AI
   with some kind of transparency in how or why it has made a particular
   choice by, for example, by expressing an intelligible reasoning (for
   humans) about its decision process, like we do, (e.g. Belkom, 2019). In
   addition, reasoning about decisions like humans do is a very malleable
   and ad hoc process (at least in humans). Humans are generally unaware
   of their implicit cognitions or attitudes, and therefore not be able to
   adequately report on them. It is therefore rather difficult for many
   humans to introspectively analyze their mental states, as far as these
   are conscious, and attach the results of this analysis to verbal labels
   and descriptions, (e.g. Nosek et al. (2011). First, the human brain
   hardly reveals how it creates conscious thoughts, (e.g. Feldman-Barret,
   2017). What it actually does is giving us the illusion that its
   products reveal its inner workings. In other words: our conscious
   thoughts tell us nothing about the way in which these thoughts came
   about. There is also no subjective marker that distinguishes correct
   reasoning processes from erroneous ones (Kahneman and Klein, 2009). The
   decision maker therefore has no way to distinguish between correct
   thoughts, emanating from genuine knowledge and expertize, and incorrect
   ones following from inappropriate neuro-evolutionary processes,
   tendencies, and primal intuitions. So here we could ask the question:
   isn’t it more trustworthy to have a real black box, than to listen to a
   confabulating one? In addition, according to Werkhoven et al. (2018)
   demanding explainability observability, or transparency (Belkom, 2019;
   van den Bosch et al., 2019) may cause artificial intelligent systems to
   constrain their potential benefit for human society, to what can be
   understood by humans.

   Of course we should not blindly trust the results generated by AI. Like
   other fields of complex technology, (e.g. Modeling &amp; Simulation), AI
   systems need to be verified (meeting specifications) and validated
   (meeting the systems’ goals) with regard to the objectives for which
   the system was designed. In general, when a system is properly verified
   and validated, it may be considered safe, secure and fit for purpose.
   It therefore deserves our trust for (logically) comprehensible and
   objective reasons (although mistakes still can happen). Likewise people
   trust in the performance of aero planes and cell phones despite we are
   almost completely ignorant about their complex inner processes. Like
   our own brains, artificial neural networks are fundamentally
   intransparant (Nosek et al., 2011; Feldman-Barret, 2017). Therefore,
   trust in AI should be primarily based on its objective performance.
   This forms a more important base than providing trust on the basis of
   subjective (trickable) impressions, stories, or images aimed at belief
   and appeal to the user. Based on empirical validation research,
   developers and users can explicitly verify how well the system is doing
   with respect to the set of values and goals for which the machine was
   designed. At some point, humans may want to trust that goals can be
   achieved against less cost and better outcomes, when we accept
   solutions even if they may be less transparent for humans (Werkhoven et
   al., 2018).

The Impact of Multiple Narrow AI Technology

AGI as the Holy Grail

   AGI, like human general intelligence, would have many obvious
   advantages, compared to narrow (limited, weak, specialized) AI. An AGI
   system would be much more flexible and adaptive. On the basis of
   generic training and reasoning processes it would understand
   autonomously how multiple problems in all kinds of different domains
   can be solved in relation to their context, (e.g. Kurzweil, 2005). AGI
   systems also require far fewer human interventions to accommodate the
   various loose ends among partial elements, facets, and perspectives in
   complex situations. AGI would really understand problems and is capable
   to view them from different perspectives (as people—ideally—also can
   do). A characteristic of the current (narrow) AI tools is that they are
   skilled in a very specific task, where they can often perform at
   superhuman levels, (e.g. Goertzel, 2007; Silver et al., 2017). These
   specific tasks have been well-defined and structured. Narrow AI systems
   are less suitable, or totally unsuitable, for tasks or task
   environments that offer little structure, consistency, rules or
   guidance, in which all sorts of unexpected, rare or uncommon events,
   (e.g. emergencies) may occur. Knowing and following fixed procedures
   usually does not lead to proper solutions in these varying
   circumstances. In the context of (unforeseen) changes in goals or
   circumstances, the adequacy of current AI is considerably reduced
   because it cannot reason from a general perspective and adapt
   accordingly (Lake et al., 2017; Horowitz, 2018). As with narrow AI
   systems, people are then needed to supervise on these deviations in
   order to enable flexible and adaptive system performance. Therefore the
   quest of AGI may be considered as looking for a kind of holy grail.

Multiple Narrow AI is Most Relevant Now!

   The potential high prospects of AGI, however, do not imply that AGI
   will be the most crucial factor in future AI R&amp;D, at least for the
   short- and mid-term. When reflecting on the great potential benefits of
   general intelligence, we tend to consider narrow AI applications as
   separate entities that can very well be outperformed by a broader AGI
   that presumably can deal with everything. But just as our modern world
   has evolved rapidly through a diversity of specific (limited)
   technological innovations, at the system level the total and wide range
   of emerging AI applications will also have a groundbreaking
   technological and societal impact (Peeters et al., 2020). This will be
   all the more relevant for the future world of big data, in which
   everything is connected to everything through the Internet of Things.
   So, it will be much more profitable and beneficial to develop and build
   (non-human-like) AI variants that will excel in areas where people are
   inherently limited. It seems not too far-fetched to suppose that the
   multiple variants of narrow AI applications also gradually get more
   broadly interconnected. In this way, a development toward an ever
   broader realm of integrated AI applications may be expected. In
   addition, it is already possible to train a language model AI
   (Generative Pre-trained Transformer3, GPT-3) with a gigantic dataset
   and then have it learn various tasks based on a handful of examples—one
   or few-shot learning. GPT-3 (developed by OpenAI) can do this with
   language-related tasks, but there is no reason why this should not be
   possible with image and sound, or with combinations of these three
   (Brown, 2020).

   Besides, the moravec Paradox implies that the development of AI
   “partners” with many kinds of human (-level) qualities will be very
   difficult to obtain, whereas their added value, (i.e. beyond the
   boundaries of human capabilities) will be relatively low. The most
   fruitful AI applications will mainly involve supplementing human
   constraints and limitations. Given the present incentives for
   competitive technological progress, multiple forms of (connected)
   narrow AI systems will be the major driver of AI impact on our society
   for short- and mid-term. For the near future, this may imply that AI
   applications will remain very different from, and in many aspects
   almost incomparable with, human agents. This is likely to be true even
   if the hypothetical match of artificial general intelligence (AGI) with
   human cognition were to be achieved in the future in the longer term.
   Intelligence is a multi-dimensional (quantitative, qualitative)
   concept. All dimensions of AI unfold and grow along their own different
   path with their own dynamics. Therefore, over time an increasing number
   of specific (narrow) AI capacities may gradually match, overtake and
   transcend human cognitive capacities. Given the enormous advantages of
   AI, for example in the field of data availability and data processing
   capacities, the realization of AGI probably would at the same time
   outclass human intelligence in many ways. Which implies that the
   hypothetical point of time of matching human- and artificial cognitive
   capacities, i.e. human-level AGI, will probably be hard to define in a
   meaningful way (Goertzel, 2007).^3

   So when AI will truly understand us as a “friend,” “partner,” “alter
   ego” or “buddy,” as we do when we collaborate with other humans as
   humans, it will surpass us in many areas at the same Moravec (1998)
   time. It will have a completely different profile of capacities and
   abilities and thus it will not be easy to really understand the way it
   “thinks” and comes to its decisions. In the meantime, however, as the
   capacities of robots expand and move from simple tools to more
   integrated systems, it is important to calibrate our expectations and
   perceptions toward robots appropriately. So, we will have to enhance
   our awareness and insight concerning the continuous development and
   progression of multiple forms of (integrated) AI systems. This concerns
   for example the multi-facetted nature of intelligence. Different kind
   of agents may have different combinations of intelligences of very
   different levels. An agent with general intelligence may for example be
   endowed with excellent abilities on the area of image recognition and
   navigation, calculation, and logical reasoning while at the same time
   being dull on the area of social interaction and goal-oriented problem
   solving. This awareness of the multi-dimensional nature of intelligence
   also concerns the way we have to deal with (and capitalize on)
   anthropomorphism. That is the human tendency in human-robot interaction
   to characterize non-human artifacts that superficially look similar to
   us as possessing human-like traits, emotions, and intentions, (e.g.,
   Kiesler and Hinds, 2004; Fink, 2012; Haring et al., 2018). Insight into
   these human factors issues is crucial to optimize the utility,
   performance and safety of human-AI systems (Peeters et al., 2020).

   From this perspective, the question whether or not “AGI at the human
   level” will be realized is not the most relevant question for the time
   being. According to most AI scientists, this will certainly happen, and
   the key question is not IF this will happen, but WHEN, (e.g., Müller
   and Bostrom, 2016). At a system level, however, multiple narrow AI
   applications are likely to overtake human intelligence in an
   increasingly wide range of areas.

Conclusions and Framework

   The present paper focused on providing some more clarity and insight
   into the fundamental characteristics, differences and idiosyncrasies of
   human and artificial intelligences. First we presented ideas and
   arguments to scale up and differentiate our conception of intelligence,
   whether this may be human or artificial. Central to this broader,
   multi-faceted, conception of intelligence is the notion that
   intelligence in itself is a matter of information and computation,
   independent of its physical substrate. However, the nature of this
   physical substrate (biological/carbon or digital/silicon), will
   substantially determine its potential envelope of cognitive abilities
   and limitations. Organic cognitive faculties of humans have been very
   recently developed during the evolution of mankind. These “embryonal”
   faculties have been built on top of a biological neural network
   apparatus that has been optimized for allostasis and (complex)
   perceptual motor functions. Human cognition is therefore characterized
   by various structural limitations and distortions in its capacity to
   process certain forms of non-biological information. Biological neural
   networks are, for example, not very capable of performing arithmetic
   calculations, for which my pocket calculator fits millions of times
   better. These inherent and ingrained limitations, that are due to the
   biological and evolutionary origin of human intelligence, may be termed
   “hard-wired.”

   In line with the Moravic’s paradox, we argued that intelligent behavior
   is more than what we, as homo sapiens, find difficult. So we should not
   confuse task-difficulty (subjective, anthropocentric) with
   task-complexity (objective). Instead we advocated a versatile
   conceptualization of intelligence and an acknowledgment of its many
   possible forms and compositions. This implies a high variety in types
   of biological or other forms of high (general) intelligence with a
   broad range of possible intelligence profiles and cognitive qualities
   (which may or may not surpass ours in many ways). This would make us
   better aware of the most probable potentials of AI applications for the
   short- and medium-term future. For example, from this perspective, our
   primary research focus should be on those components of the
   intelligence spectrum that are relatively difficult for the human brain
   and relatively easy for machines. This involves primarily the cognitive
   component requiring calculation, arithmetic analysis, statistics,
   probability calculation, data analysis, logical reasoning,
   memorization, et cetera.

   In line with this we have advocated a modest, more humble, view of our
   human, general intelligence. Which also implies that human-level AGI
   should not be considered as the “golden standard” of intelligence (to
   be pursued with foremost priority). Because of the many fundamental
   differences between natural and artificial intelligences, human-like
   AGI will be very difficult to accomplish in the first place (and also
   with relatively limited added value). In case an AGI will be
   accomplished in the (far) future it will therefore probably have a
   completely different profile of cognitive capacities and abilities than
   we, as humans, have. When such an AGI has come so far that it is able
   to “collaborate” like a human, it will at the same time be likely that
   can in many respects already function at highly superior levels
   relative to what we are able to. For the time being, however, it will
   not be very realistic and useful to aim at AGI that includes the broad
   scope of human perceptual-motor and cognitive abilities. Instead, the
   most profitable AI applications for the short- and mid-term future,
   will probably be based on multiple narrow AI systems. These multiple
   narrow AI applications may catch up with human intelligence in an
   increasingly broader range of areas.

   From this point of view we advocate not to dwell too intensively on the
   AGI question, whether or when AI will outsmart us, take our jobs, or
   how to endow it with all kinds of human abilities. Given the present
   state of the art it may be wise to focus more on the whole system of
   multiple AI innovations with humans as a crucial connecting and
   supervising factor. This also implies the establishment and
   formalization of legal boundaries and proper (effective, ethical, safe)
   goals for AI systems (Elands et al., 2019; Aliman, 2020). So this human
   factor (legislator, user, “collaborator”) needs to have good insight
   into the characteristics and capacities of biological and artificial
   intelligence (under all sorts of tasks and working conditions). Both in
   the workplace and in policy making the most fruitful AI applications
   will be to complement and compensate for the inherent biological and
   cognitive constraints of humans. For this reason, prominent issues
   concern how to use it intelligently? For what tasks and under what
   conditions decisions are safe to leave to AI and when is human judgment
   required? How can we capitalize on the strengths of human intelligence
   and how to deploy AI systems effectively to complement and compensate
   for the inherent constraints of human cognition. See (Hoffman and
   Johnson, 2019; Shneiderman, 2020a; Shneiderman, 2020b) for recent
   overviews.

   In summary: No matter how intelligent autonomous AI agents become in
   certain respects, at least for the foreseeable future, they will remain
   unconscious machines. These machines have a fundamentally different
   operating system (biological vs digital) with correspondingly different
   cognitive abilities and qualities than people and other animals. So,
   before a proper “team collaboration” can start, the human team members
   will have to understand these kinds of differences, i.e., how human
   information processing and intelligence differs from that of–the many
   possible and specific variants of—AI systems. Only when humans develop
   a proper of these “interspecies” differences they can effectively
   capitalize on the potential benefits of AI in (future) human-AI teams.
   Given the high flexibility, versatility, and adaptability of humans
   relative to AI systems, the first challenge becomes then how to ensure
   human adaptation to the more rigid abilities of AI?^4 In other words:
   how can we achieve a proper conception the differences between human-
   and artificial intelligence?

Framework for Intelligence Awareness Training

   For this question, the issue of Intelligence Awareness in human
   professionals needs to be addressed more vigorously. Next to computer
   tools for the distribution of relevant awareness information (Collazos
   et al., 2019) in human-machine systems, this requires better education
   and training on how to deal with the very new and different
   characteristics, idiosyncrasies, and capacities of AI systems. This
   includes, for example, a proper understanding of the basic
   characteristics, possibilities, and limitations of the AI’s cognitive
   system properties without anthropocentric and/or anthropomorphic
   misconceptions. In general, this “Intelligence Awareness” is highly
   relevant in order to better understand, investigate, and deal with the
   manifold possibilities and challenges of machine intelligence. This
   practical human-factors challenge could, for instance, be tackled by
   developing new, targeted and easily configurable (adaptive) training
   forms and learning environments for human-AI systems. These flexible
   training forms and environments, (e.g. simulations and games) should
   focus at developing knowledge, insight and practical skills concerning
   the specific, non-human characteristics, abilities, and limitations of
   AI systems and how to deal with these in practical situations. People
   will have to understand the critical factors determining the goals,
   performance, and choices of AI? Which may in some cases even include
   the simple notion that AIs excite as much about their performance in
   achieving their goals as your refrigerator does for keeping your
   milkshake well. They have to learn when and under what conditions
   decisions are safe to leave to AI and when is human judgment required
   or essential? And more in general: how does it “think” and decide? The
   relevance of this kind of knowledge, skills and practices will only
   become bigger when the degree of autonomy (and genericity) of advanced
   AI systems will grow.

   What does such an Intelligence Awareness training curriculum look like?
   It needs to include at least a module on the cognitive characteristics
   of AI. This is basically a subject similar to those subjects that are
   also included in curricula on human cognition. This broad module on the
   “Cognitive Science of AI” may involve a range of sub-topics starting
   with a revision of the concept of "Intelligence" stripped of
   anthropocentric and anthropomorphic misunderstandings. In addition,
   this module should focus at providing knowledge about the structure and
   operation of the AI operating system or the “AI mind.” This may be
   followed by subjects like: Perception and interpretation of information
   by AI, AI cognition (memory, information processing, problem solving,
   biases), dealing with AI possibilities and limitations in the “human”
   areas like creativity, adaptivity, autonomy, reflection, and (self-)
   awareness, dealing with goal functions (valuation of actions in
   relation to cost-benefit), AI ethics and AI security. In addition, such
   a curriculum should include technical modules providing insight into
   the working of the AI operating system. Due to the enormous speed with
   which the AI technology and application develops, the content of such a
   curriculum is also very dynamic and continuously evolving on the basis
   of technological progress. This implies that the curriculum and
   training-aids and -environments should be flexible, experiential, and
   adaptive, which makes the work form of serious gaming ideally suited.
   Below, we provide a global framework for the development of new
   educational curricula on AI awareness. These subtopics go beyond
   learning to effectively “operate,” “control” or interact with specific
   AI applications (i.e. conventional human-machine interaction):

   ‐Understanding of underlying system characteristics of the AI (the “AI
   brain”). Understanding the specific qualities and limitations of AI
   relative to human intelligence.

   ‐Understanding the complexity of the tasks and of the environment from
   the perspective of AI systems.

   ‐Understanding the problem of biases in human cognition, relative to
   biases in AI.

   ‐Understanding the problems associated with the control of AI,
   predictability of AI behavior (decisions), building trust, maintaining
   situation awareness (complacency), dynamic task allocation, (e.g.
   taking over each other’s tasks) and responsibility (accountability).

   ‐How to deal with possibilities and limitations of AI in the field of
   “creativity”, adaptability of AI, “environmental awareness”, and
   generalization of knowledge.

   ‐Learning to deal with perceptual and cognitive limitations and
   possible errors of AI which may be difficult to comprehend.

   ‐Trust in the performance of AI (possibly in spite of limited
   transparency or ability to “explain”) based on verification and
   validation.

   ‐Learning to deal with our natural inclination to anthropocentrism and
   anthropomorphism (“theory of mind”) when reasoning about human-robot
   interaction.

   ‐How to capitalize on the powers of AI in order to deal with the
   inherent constraints of human information processing (and vice versa).

   ‐Understanding the specific characteristics and qualities of the
   man-machine system and being able to decide on when, for what, and how
   the integrated combination of human- and AI faculties may perform at
   best overall system potential.

   In conclusion: due to the enormous speed with which the AI technology
   and application evolves we need a more versatile conceptualization of
   intelligence and an acknowledgment of its many possible forms and
   combinations. A revised conception of intelligence includes also a good
   understanding of the basic characteristics, possibilities, and
   limitations of different (biological, artificial) cognitive system
   properties without anthropocentric and/or anthropomorphic
   misconceptions. This “Intelligence Awareness” is highly relevant in
   order to better understand and deal with the manifold possibilities and
   challenges of machine intelligence, for instance to decide when to use
   or deploy AI in relation to tasks and their context. The development of
   educational curricula with new, targeted, and easily configurable
   training forms and learning environments for human-AI systems are
   therefore recommended. Further work should focus on training tools,
   methods and content that are flexible and adaptive enough to be able to
   keep up with the rapid changes in the field of AI and with the wide
   variety of target groups and learning goals.

Author Contributions

   The literature search, analysis, conceptual work, and the writing of
   the manuscript was done by JEK. All authors listed have made
   substantial, direct, and intellectual contribution to the work and
   approved it for publication.

Conflict of Interest

   The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of
   any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a
   potential conflict of interest.

Acknowledgments

   The authors want to thank J. van Diggelen, L.J.H.M. Kester for their
   useful inputs for this manuscript. The present paper was a deliverable
   of 1) the BIHUNT program (Behavioral Impact of NIC Teaming, V1719)
   funded by the Dutch Ministry of Defense and of the Wise Policy Making
   program funded by the Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific
   Research (TNO).

Footnotes

   ^1Narrow AI can be defined as the production of systems displaying
   intelligence regarding specific, highly constrained tasks, like playing
   chess, facial recognition, autonomous navigation, or locomotion
   (Goertzel et al., 2014).

   ^2Cognitive abilities involve deliberate, conceptual or analytic
   thinking (e.g., calculation, statistics, analysis, reasoning,
   abstraction)

   ^3Unless of course AI will be deliberately constrained or degraded to
   human-level functioning.

   ^4Next to the issue of Human-Aware AI, i.e. tuning AI to the cognitive
   characteristics of humans.

References

   Ackermann, N. (2018). Artificial Intelligence Framework: a visual
   introduction to machine learning and AI Retrieved from:
   https://towardsdatascience.com/artificial-intelligence-framework-a-visu
   al-introduction-to-machine-learning-and-ai-d7e36b304f87. (September 9,
   2019).

   Aliman, N-M. (2020). Hybrid cognitive-affective Strategies for AI
   safety. PhD thesis. Utrecht, Netherlands: Utrecht University.
   doi:10.33540/203

   CrossRef Full Text

   Bao, J. X., Kandel, E. R., and Hawkins, R. D. (1997). Involvement of
   pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms in posttetanic potentiation at Aplysia
   synapses. Science 275, 969–973. doi:10.1126/science.275.5302.969Dane

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bar, M. (2007). The proactive brain: using analogies and associations
   to generate predictions. Trends Cogn. Sci. 11, 280–289.
   doi:10.1016/j.tics.2007.05.005

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Baron, J., and Ritov, I. (2004). Omission bias, individual differences,
   and normality. Organizational Behav. Hum. Decis. Process. 94, 74–85.
   doi:10.1016/j.obhdp.2004.03.003

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Belkom, R. v. (2019). Duikboten zwemmen niet: de zoektocht naar
   intelligente machines. Den Haag: Stichting Toekomstbeeld der Techniek
   (STT).

   Google Scholar

   Bergstein, B. (2017). AI isn’t very smart yet. But we need to get
   moving to make sure automation works for more people. Cambridge, MA,
   United States: MIT Technology Retrieved from:
   https://www.technologyreview.com/s/609318/the-great-ai-paradox/

   Bieger, J. B., Thorisson, K. R., and Garrett, D. (2014). “Raising AI:
   tutoring matters,” in 7th international conference, AGI 2014 quebec
   city, QC, Canada, august 1–4, 2014 proceedings. Editors B. Goertzel, L.
   Orseau, and J. Snaider (Berlin, Germany: Springer).
   doi:10.1007/978-3-319-09274-4

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Boden, M. (2017). Principles of robotics: regulating robots in the real
   world. Connect. Sci. 29 (2), 124–129.

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bostrom, N. (2014). Superintelligence: pathts, dangers, strategies.
   Oxford United Kingdom: Oxford University Press.

   Bradshaw, J. M., Dignum, V., Jonker, C. M., and Sierhuis, M. (2012).
   Introduction to special issue on human-agent-robot teamwork. IEEE
   Intell. Syst. 27, 8–13. doi:10.1109/MIS.2012.37

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Brodal, A. (1981). Neurological anatomy in relation to clinical
   medicine. New York, NY, United States: Oxford University Press.

   Brown, T. B. (2020). Language models are few-shot learners, arXiv 2005,
   14165v4.

   Google Scholar

   Cialdini, R. D. (1984). Influence: the psychology of persuation. New
   York, NY, United States: Harper.

   Coley, J. D., and Tanner, K. D. (2012). Common origins of diverse
   misconceptions: cognitive principles and the development of biology
   thinking. CBE Life Sci. Educ. 11 (3), 209–215.
   doi:10.1187/cbe.12-06-0074

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Collazos, C. A., Gutierrez, F. L., Gallardo, J., Ortega, M., Fardoun,
   H. M., and Molina, A. I. (2019). Descriptive theory of awareness for
   groupware development. J. Ambient Intelligence Humanized Comput. 10,
   4789–4818. doi:10.1007/s12652-018-1165-9

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Damasio, A. R. (1994). Descartes’ error: emotion, reason and the human
   brain. New York, NY, United States: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

   Elands, P., HuizingKester, A. L., Oggero, S., and Peeters, M. (2019).
   Governing ethical and effective behavior of intelligent systems: a
   novel framework for meaningful human control in a military context.
   Militaire Spectator 188 (6), 302–313.

   Google Scholar

   Feldman-Barret, L. (2017). How emotions are made: the secret life of
   the brain. Boston, MA, United States: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.

   Fink, J. (2012). “Anthropomorphism and human likeness in the design of
   robots and human-robot interaction,” in Social robotics. ICSR 2012.
   Lecture notes in computer science. Editors S. S. Ge, O. Khatib, J. J.
   Cabibihan, R. Simmons, and M. A. Williams (Berlin, Germany: Springer),
   7621. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-34103-8_20

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Fischetti, M. (2011). Computers vs brains. Scientific American 175^th
   anniversary issue Retreived from:
   https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/computers-vs-brains/.

   Furnham, A., and Boo, H. C. (2011). A literature review of the
   anchoring effect. The J. Socio-Economics 40, 35–42.
   doi:10.1016/j.socec.2010.10.008

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Gerla, M., Lee, E-K., and Pau, G. (2014). Internet of vehicles: from
   intelligent grid to autonomous cars and vehicular clouds. WF-IoT 12,
   241–246. doi:10.1177/1550147716665500

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Gibson, J. J. (1979). The ecological approach to visual perception.
   Boston, MA, United States: Houghton Mifflin.

   Gibson, J. J. (1966). The senses considered as perceptual systems.
   Boston, MA, United States: Houghton Mifflin.

   Gigerenzer, G., and Gaissmaier, W. (2011). Heuristic decision making.
   Annu. Rev. Psychol. 62, 451–482.
   doi:10.1146/annurev-psych-120709-145346

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Goertzel, B. (2007). Human-level artificial general intelligence and
   the possibility of a technological singularity: a reaction to Ray
   Kurzweil's the singularity is near, and McDermott’s critique of
   Kurzweil. Artif. Intelligence 171 (18), 1161–1173.
   doi:10.1016/j.artint.2007.10.011

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Goertzel, B., Orseau, L., and Snaider, J., (Editors). (2014). Preface.
   7th international conference, AGI 2014 Quebec City, QC, Canada, August
   1–4, 2014 ProceedingsSpringer.

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Grind, W. A. van. de. (1997). Natuurlijke intelligentie: over denken,
   intelligentie en bewustzijn van mensen en andere dieren. 2nd edn.
   Amsterdam, Netherlands: Nieuwezijds Retrieved from
   https://www.nieuwezijds.nl/boek/natuurlijke-intelligentie/. (July 9,
   2019).

   Hardin, G. (1968). The tragedy of the commons. The population problem
   has no technical solution; it requires a fundamental extension in
   morality. Science 162, 1243–1248. doi:10.1126/science.162.3859.1243

   Google Scholar

   Haring, K. S., Watanabe, K., Velonaki, M., Tosell, C. C., and Finomore,
   V. (2018). Ffab—the form function attribution bias in human-robot
   interaction. IEEE Trans. Cogn. Dev. Syst. 10 (4), 843–851.
   doi:10.1109/TCDS.2018.2851569

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Haselton, M. G., Bryant, G. A., Wilke, A., Frederick, D. A., Galperin,
   A., Frankenhuis, W. E., et al. (2009). Adaptive rationality: an
   evolutionary perspective on cognitive bias. Soc. Cogn. 27, 733–762.
   doi:10.1521/soco.2009.27.5.733

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Haselton, M. G., Nettle, D., and Andrews, P. W. (2005). “The evolution
   of cognitive bias,” in The handbook of evolutionary psychology. Editor
   D.M. Buss (Hoboken, NJ, United States: John Wiley &amp; Sons), 724–746.

   Google Scholar

   Henshilwood, C., and Marean, C. (2003). The origin of modern human
   behavior. Curr. Anthropol. 44 (5), 627–651. doi:10.1086/377665

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Hoffman, R. R., and Johnson, M. (2019). “The quest for alternatives to
   “levels of automation” and “task allocation,” in Human performance in
   automated and autonomous systems. Editors M. Mouloua, and P. A. Hancock
   (Boca Raton, FL, United States: CRC Press), 43–68.

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Hoffrage, U., Hertwig, R., and Gigerenzer, G. (2000). Hindsight bias: a
   by-product of knowledge updating? J. Exp. Psychol. Learn. Mem. Cogn.
   26, 566–581. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.26.3.566

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Horowitz, M. C. (2018). The promise and peril of military applications
   of artificial intelligence. Bulletin of the atomic scientists Retrieved
   from
   https://thebulletin.org/militaryapplications-artificial-intelligence/pr
   omise-and-peril-military-applications-artificial-intelligence (Accessed
   March 27, 2019).

   Google Scholar

   Isaacson, J. S., and Scanziani, M. (2011). How inhibition shapes
   cortical activity. Neuron 72, 231–243. doi:10.1016/j.neuron.2011.09.027

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Johnson, M., Bradshaw, J. M., Feltovich, P. J., Jonker, C. M., van
   Riemsdijk, M. B., and Sierhuis, M. (2014). Coactive design: designing
   support for interdependence in joint activity. J. Human-Robot
   Interaction 3 (1), 43–69. doi:10.5898/JHRI.3.1.Johnson

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kahle, W. (1979). Band 3: nervensysteme und Sinnesorgane, in
   Taschenatlas de anatomie. Stutttgart. Editors W. Kahle, H. Leonhardt,
   and W. Platzer (New York, NY, United States: Thieme Verlag).

   Kahneman, D., and Klein, G. (2009). Conditions for intuitive expertize:
   a failure to disagree. Am. Psychol. 64, 515–526. doi:10.1037/a0016755

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kahneman, D. (2011). Thinking, fast and slow. New York, NY, United
   States: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.

   Katz, B., and Miledi, R. (1968). The role of calcium in neuromuscular
   facilitation. J. Physiol. 195, 481–492.
   doi:10.1113/jphysiol.1968.sp008469

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kiesler, S., and Hinds, P. (2004). Introduction to this special issue
   on human–robot interaction. Int J Hum-Comput. Int. 19 (1), 1–8.
   doi:10.1080/07370024.2004.9667337

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Klein, G., Woods, D. D., Bradshaw, J. M., Hoffman, R. R., and
   Feltovich, P. J. (2004). Ten challenges for making automation a ‘team
   player’ in joint human-agent activity. IEEE Intell. Syst. 19 (6),
   91–95. doi:10.1109/MIS.2004.74

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Korteling, J. E. (1994). Multiple-task performance and aging. Bariet,
   Ruinen, Netherlands: Dissertation. TNO-Human Factors Research
   Institute/State University Groningen
   https://www.researchgate.net/publication/310626711_Multiple-Task_Perfor
   mance_and_Aging.

   Korteling, J. E., and Toet, A. (2020). Cognitive biases. in
   Encyclopedia of behavioral neuroscience. 2nd Edn (Amsterdam-Edinburgh:
   Elsevier Science) doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.24105-9

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Korteling, J. E., Brouwer, A. M., and Toet, A. (2018a). A neural
   network framework for cognitive bias. Front. Psychol. 9, 1561.
   doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01561

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Korteling, J. E., van de Boer-Visschedijk, G. C., Boswinkel, R. A., and
   Boonekamp, R. C. (2018b). Effecten van de inzet van Non-Human
   Intelligent Collaborators op Opleiding and Training [V1719]. Report TNO
   2018 R11654. Soesterberg: TNO defense safety and security, Soesterberg,
   Netherlands: TNO, Soesterberg.

   Google Scholar

   Korteling, J. E., Gerritsma, J., and Toet, A. (2021). Retention and
   transfer of cognitive bias mitigation interventions: a systematic
   literature study. Front. Psychol. 1–20. doi:10.13140/RG.2.2.27981.56800

   Google Scholar

   Kosslyn, S. M., and Koenig, O. (1992). Wet Mind: the new cognitive
   neuroscience. New York, NY, United States: Free Press.

   Krämer, N. C., von der Pütten, A., and Eimler, S. (2012). “Human-agent
   and human-robot interaction theory: similarities to and differences
   from human-human interaction,” in Human-computer interaction: the
   agency perspective. Studies in computational intelligence. Editors M.
   Zacarias, and J. V. de Oliveira (Berlin, Germany: Springer), 396,
   215–240. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-25691-2_9

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kurzweil, R. (2005). The singularity is near. New York, NY, United
   States: Viking press.

   Kurzweil, R. (1990). The age of intelligent machines. Cambridge, MA,
   United States: MIT Press.

   Lake, B. M., Ullman, T. D., Tenenbaum, J. B., and Gershman, S. J.
   (2017). Building machines that learn and think like people. Behav.
   Brain Sci. 40, e253. doi:10.1017/S0140525X16001837

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Lichtenstein, S., and Slovic, P. (1971). Reversals of preference
   between bids and choices in gambling decisions. J. Exp. Psychol. 89,
   46–55. doi:10.1037/h0031207

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   McBrearty, S., and Brooks, A. (2000). The revolution that wasn't: a new
   interpretation of the origin of modern human behavior. J. Hum. Evol. 39
   (5), 453–563. doi:10.1006/jhev.2000.0435

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   McClelland, J. L. (1978). Perception and masking of wholes and parts.
   J. Exp. Psychol. Hum. Percept Perform. 4, 210–223.
   doi:10.1037//0096-1523.4.2.210

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   McDowd, J. M., and Craik, F. I. M. (1988). Effects of aging and task
   difficulty on divided attention performance. J. Exp. Psychol. Hum.
   Percept. Perform. 14, 267–280.

   Minsky, M. (1986). The Society of Mind. London, United Kingdom: Simon
   and Schuster.

   Moravec, H. (1988). Mind children. Cambridge, MA, United States:
   Harvard University Press.

   Moravec, H. (1998). When will computer hardware match the human brain?
   J. Evol. Tech. 1Retreived from
   https://jetpress.org/volume1/moravec.htm.

   Google Scholar

   Müller, V. C., and Bostrom, N. (2016). Future progress in artificial
   intelligence: a survey of expert opinion. Fundamental issues of
   artificial intelligence. Cham, Switzerland: Springer.
   doi:10.1007/978-3-319-26485-1

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Nickerson, R. S. (1998). Confirmation bias: a ubiquitous phenomenon in
   many guises. Rev. Gen. Psychol. 2, 175–220.
   doi:10.1037/1089-2680.2.2.175

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Nosek, B. A., Hawkins, C. B., and Frazier, R. S. (2011). Implicit
   social cognition: from measures to mechanisms. Trends Cogn. Sci. 15
   (4), 152–159. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2011.01.005

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Patt, A., and Zeckhauser, R. (2000). Action bias and environmental
   decisions. J. Risk Uncertain. 21, 45–72. doi:10.1023/a:1026517309871

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Peeters, M. M., van Diggelen, J., van Den Bosch, K., Bronkhorst, A.,
   Neerincx, M. A., Schraagen, J. M., et al. (2020). Hybrid collective
   intelligence in a human–AI society. AI and Society 38, 217–(238.)
   doi:10.1007/s00146-020-01005-y

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Petraglia, M. D., and Korisettar, R. (1998). Early human behavior in
   global context. Oxfordshire, United Kingdom: Routledge.

   Pomerantz, J. (1981). “Perceptual organization in information
   processing,” in Perceptual organization. Editors M. Kubovy, and J.
   Pomerantz (Hillsdale, NJ, United States: Lawrence Erlbaum).

   Google Scholar

   Pronin, E., Lin, D. Y., and Ross, L. (2002). The bias blind spot:
   perceptions of bias in self versus others. Personal. Soc. Psychol.
   Bull. 28, 369–381. doi:10.1177/0146167202286008

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Reicher, G. M. (1969). Perceptual recognition as a function of
   meaningfulness of stimulus material. J. Exp. Psychol. 81, 274–280.

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Rich, E., and Knight, K. (1991). Artificial intelligence. 2nd edition.
   New York, NY, United States: McGraw-Hill.

   Rich, E., Knight, K., and Nair, S. B. (2009). Articial intelligence.
   3rd Edn. New Delhi, India: Tata McGraw-Hill.

   Risen, J. L. (2015). Believing what we do not believe: acquiescence to
   superstitious beliefs and other powerful intuitions. Psychol. Rev. 123,
   182–207. doi:10.1037/rev0000017

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Roese, N. J., and Vohs, K. D. (2012). Hindsight bias. Perspect.
   Psychol. Sci. 7, 411–426. doi:10.1177/1745691612454303

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Rogers, R. D., and Monsell, S. (1995). Costs of a predictible switch
   between simple cognitive tasks. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 124, 207e231.
   doi:10.1037/0096-3445.124.2.207

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Rubinstein, J. S., Meyer, D. E., and Evans, J. E. (2001). Executive
   control of cognitive processes in task switching. J. Exp. Psychol. Hum.
   Percept Perform. 27, 763–797. doi:10.1037//0096-1523.27.4.763

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Russell, S., and Norvig, P. (2014). Artificial intelligence: a modern
   approach. 3rd ed. Harlow, United Kingdom: Pearson Education.

   Shafir, E., and LeBoeuf, R. A. (2002). Rationality. Annu. Rev. Psychol.
   53, 491–517. doi:10.1146/annurev.psych.53.100901.135213

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Shatz, C. J. (1992). The developing brain. Sci. Am. 267, 60–67.
   doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0992-60

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Shneiderman, B. (2020a). Design lessons from AI’s two grand goals:
   human emulation and useful applications. IEEE Trans. Tech. Soc. 1,
   73–82. doi:10.1109/TTS.2020.2992669

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Shneiderman, B. (2020b). Human-centered artificial intelligence:
   reliable, safe &amp; trustworthy. Int. J. Human–Computer Interaction 36
   (6), 495–504. doi:10.1080/10447318.2020.1741118

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Siegel, A., and Sapru, H. N. (2005). Essential neuroscience.
   Philedelphia, PA, United States: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins.

   Silver, D., Schrittwieser, J., Simonyan, K., Antonoglou, I., Huang, A.,
   Guez, A., et al. (2017). Mastering the game of go without human
   knowledge. Nature 550 (7676), 354. doi:10.1038/nature24270

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Simon, H. A. (1955). A behavioral model of rational choice. Q. J. Econ.
   69, 99–118. doi:10.2307/1884852

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Taylor, D. M., and Doria, J. R. (1981). Self-serving and group-serving
   bias in attribution. J. Soc. Psychol. 113, 201–211.
   doi:10.1080/00224545.1981.9924371

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Tegmark, M. (2017). Life 3.0: being human in the age of artificial
   intelligence. New York, NY, United States: Borzoi Book published by
   A.A. Knopf.

   Toet, A., Brouwer, A. M., van den Bosch, K., and Korteling, J. E.
   (2016). Effects of personal characteristics on susceptibility to
   decision bias: a literature study. Int. J. Humanities Soc. Sci. 8,
   1–17.

   Tooby, J., and Cosmides, L. (2005). “Conceptual foundations of
   evolutionary psychology,” in Handbook of evolutionary psychology.
   Editor D.M. Buss (Hoboken, NJ, United States: John Wiley &amp; Sons), 5–67.

   Google Scholar

   Tversky, A., and Kahneman, D. (1974). Judgment under uncertainty:
   heuristics and biases. Science 185 (4157), 1124–1131.
   doi:10.1126/science.185.4157.1124

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Tversky, A., and Kahneman, D. (1981). The framing of decisions and the
   psychology of choice. Science 211, 453–458. doi:10.1126/science.7455683

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Tversky, A., and Kahneman, D. (1973). Availability: a heuristic for
   judging frequency and probability. Cogn. Psychol. 5, 207–232.
   doi:10.1016/0010-0285(73)90033-9

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   van den Bosch, K., and Bronkhorst, K. (2018). Human-AI cooperation to
   benefit military decision making. Soesterberg, Netherlands: TNO.

   van den Bosch, K., and Bronkhorst, K. (2019). Six challenges for
   human-AI Co-learning. Adaptive instructional systems 11597, 572–589.
   doi:10.1007/978-3-030-22341-0_45

   Weisstein, N., and Harris, C. S. (1974). Visual detection of line
   segments: an object-superiority effect. Science 186, 752–755.
   doi:10.1126/science.186.4165.752

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Werkhoven, P., Neerincx, M., and Kester, L. (2018). Telling autonomous
   systems what to do. Proceedings of the 36th European Conference on
   Cognitive Ergonomics, ECCE 2018, Utrecht, Nehterlands, 5–7 September,
   2018, 1–8. doi:10.1145/3232078.3232238

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wheeler, D., (1970). Processes in word recognition Cogn. Psychol. 1,
   59–85.

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Williams, A., and Weisstein, N. (1978). Line segments are perceived
   better in a coherent context than alone: an object-line effect in
   visual perception. Mem. Cognit 6, 85–90. doi:10.3758/bf03197432

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wingfield, A., and Byrnes, D. (1981). The psychology of human memory.
   New York, NY, united States: Academic Press.

   Wood, R. E., Mento, A. J., and Locke, E. A. (1987). Task complexity as
   a moderator of goal effects: a meta-analysis. J. Appl. Psychol. 72 (3),
   416–425. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.72.3.416

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wyrobek, K. A., Berger, E. H., van der Loos, H. F. M., and Salisbury,
   J. K. (2008). Toward a personal robotics development platform:
   rationale and design of an intrinsically safe personal robot.
   Proceedinds of2008 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
   Automation, Pasadena, CA, United States, 19-23 May 2008.
   doi:10.1109/ROBOT.2008.4543527

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Keywords: human intelligence, artificial intelligence, artificial
   general intelligence, human-level artificial intelligence, cognitive
   complexity, narrow artificial intelligence, human-AI collaboration,
   cognitive bias

   Citation: Korteling JE(, van de Boer-Visschedijk GC, Blankendaal RAM,
   Boonekamp RC and Eikelboom AR (2021) Human- versus Artificial
   Intelligence. Front. Artif. Intell. 4:622364. doi:
   10.3389/frai.2021.622364

   Received: 29 October 2020; Accepted: 01 February 2021;
   Published: 25 March 2021.

   Edited by:
   Esma Aïmeur, Université de Montréal, Canada

   Reviewed by:
   Cesar Collazos, University of Cauca, Colombia
   Ranilson Oscar Araújo Paiva, Federal University of Alagoas, Brazil

   Copyright © 2021 Korteling, van de Boer-Visschedijk, Blankendaal,
   Boonekamp and Eikelboom. This is an open-access article distributed
   under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY).
   The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted,
   provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited
   and that the original publication in this journal is cited, in
   accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or
   reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.

   *Correspondence: J. E. (Hans). Korteling, hans.korteling@tno.nl

This article is part of the Research Topic

   Skills-in-Demand: Bridging the Gap between Educational Attainment and
   Labor Market with Learning Analytics and Machine Learning Applications
   View all 4 Articles

People also looked at

   Download
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-11">
<text>
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MRVXSHQ

   Skip to main content

   Advertisement
   SpringerLink
   Log in
   Menu
   Find a journal Publish with us
   Search
   Cart
    1. Home

     AI &amp; SOCIETY

     Article

     * Original Article
     * Published: 30 September 2017

Social choice ethics in artificial intelligence

     * Seth D. Baum^1

   AI &amp; SOCIETY volume 35, pages 165–176 (2020)Cite this article
     * 7626 Accesses
     * 48 Citations
     * 6 Altmetric
     * Metrics details

Abstract

   A major approach to the ethics of artificial intelligence (AI) is to
   use social choice, in which the AI is designed to act according to the
   aggregate views of society. This is found in the AI ethics of “coherent
   extrapolated volition” and “bottom–up ethics”. This paper shows that
   the normative basis of AI social choice ethics is weak due to the fact
   that there is no one single aggregate ethical view of society. Instead,
   the design of social choice AI faces three sets of decisions: standing,
   concerning whose ethics views are included; measurement, concerning how
   their views are identified; and aggregation, concerning how individual
   views are combined to a single view that will guide AI behavior. These
   decisions must be made up front in the initial AI design—designers
   cannot “let the AI figure it out”. Each set of decisions poses
   difficult ethical dilemmas with major consequences for AI behavior,
   with some decision options yielding pathological or even catastrophic
   results. Furthermore, non-social choice ethics face similar issues,
   such as whether to count future generations or the AI itself. These
   issues can be more important than the question of whether or not to use
   social choice ethics. Attention should focus on these issues, not on
   social choice.

   This is a preview of subscription content, access via your institution.

Access options

Buy single article

   Instant access to the full article PDF.

   39,95 €

   Price includes VAT (France)
   Buy article PDF

   Rent this article via DeepDyve.

   Learn more about Institutional subscriptions

Notes

    1. Note that while consciousness may play a role in ethics learning
       among human children, it is not essential for AI. The essential
       feature is that ethics is learned via interaction with the
       environment, regardless of whether that interaction involves
       consciousness.
    2. One exception, in which social choice is (briefly) discussed in the
       context of CEV, is Tarleton (2010). Keyword searches in Google
       Scholar identified no other discussions of social choice in CEV or
       bottom-up ethics. There is a more extensive study of “computational
       social choice” relating aspects of social choice theory and
       computer science (Brandt et al. 2015).
    3. This is similar to the “boundary problem” in democracy (Arrhenius
       2005).
    4. Martin (2017) also considers having AIs set their own ethics or the
       ethics of other AIs; more on this below.
    5. Tay was programmed to learn from (and thus give standing to)
       Twitter users who interact with it, which quickly devolved into
       deviance and obscenity as Twitter users taught it to misbehave.
       Microsoft has since been wrestling with the question of how to give
       standing to a more appropriate mix of people.
    6. There is a certain irony that some proponents of CEV speak in terms
       of giving standing only to humanity but also favor a transition to
       posthumanity (e.g., Bostrom 2008).
    7. For an argument against Benatar’s views, see Baum (2008).
    8. This happened in 2000 and 2016, when Al Gore and Hillary Clinton,
       respectively, received more votes from individual voters, but
       George W. Bush and Donald Trump, respectively, received more votes
       in the electoral college.
    9. There is no indication that Tay was designed with bottom–up ethics
       in mind, but the net result is the same in that Tay acquired its
       principles for behavior via input from the people it interacted
       with.

References

     * Adams FC (2008) Long-term astrophysical processes. In: Bostrom N,
       Ćirković MM (eds) Global catastrophic risks. Oxford University
       Press, Oxford, pp 33–47
       Google Scholar
     * Allen C, Varner G, Zinser J (2000) Prolegomena to any future
       artificial moral agent. J Exp Theor Artif Intell 12:251–261
       MATH  Google Scholar
     * Allen C, Smit I, Wallach W (2005) Artificial morality: top-down,
       bottom-up, and hybrid approaches. Ethics Inf Technol 7(3):149–155
       Google Scholar
     * Anomaly J (2015) What’s wrong with factory farming? Public Health
       Ethics 8(3):246–254
       Google Scholar
     * Arrhenius G (2005) The boundary problem in democratic theory. In:
       Tersman F (ed) Democracy unbound: basic explorations I. Filosofiska
       Institutionen, Stockholm, pp 14–29
       Google Scholar
     * Arrhenius G (2011) The impossibility of a satisfactory population
       ethics. In: Dzhafarov E, Lacey P (eds) Descriptive and normative
       approaches to human behavior. World Scientific, Singapore, pp 1–26
       Google Scholar
     * Arrhenius G, Rabinowicz W (2015) The value of existence. In: Hirose
       I, Olson J (eds) The Oxford handbook of value theory. Oxford
       University Press, Oxford, pp 424–443
       Google Scholar
     * Arrow KJ (1951) Social choice and individual values. Wiley, New
       York
       MATH  Google Scholar
     * Balliet D, Wu J, De Dreu CKW (2014) Ingroup favoritism in
       cooperation: a meta-analysis. Psychol Bull 140(6):1556–1581
       Google Scholar
     * Baron RS (2005) So right it’s wrong: groupthink and the ubiquitous
       nature of polarized group decision making. Adv Exp Soc Psychol
       37:219–253
       Google Scholar
     * Baum SD (2008) Better to exist: a reply to Benatar. J Med Ethics
       34(12):875–876
       Google Scholar
     * Baum SD (2009) Description, prescription and the choice of discount
       rates. Ecol Econ 69(1):197–205
       Google Scholar
     * Benatar D (2006) Better never to have been: the harm of coming into
       existence. Oxford University Press, Oxford
       Google Scholar
     * Bohannon J (2015) Fears of an AI pioneer. Science 349(6245):252
       MathSciNet  MATH  Google Scholar
     * Borenstein J, Arkin R (2016) Robotic nudges: the ethics of
       engineering a more socially just human being. Sci Eng Ethics
       22(1):31–46
       Google Scholar
     * Bostrom N (2008) Why I want to be a posthuman when I grow up. In:
       Gordijn B, Chadwick R (eds) Medical enhancement and posthumanity.
       Springer, Berlin, pp 107–136
       Google Scholar
     * Bostrom N (2014) Superintelligence: paths, dangers, strategies.
       Oxford University Press, Oxford
       Google Scholar
     * Brandt F, Conitzer V, Endriss U, Lang J, Procaccia AD (2015)
       Handbook of computational social choice. Cambridge University
       Press, Cambridge
       MATH  Google Scholar
     * Buchanan A (2009) Moral status and human enhancement. Philos Public
       Aff 37(4):346–381
       Google Scholar
     * Clark J (2016) Artificial intelligence has a ‘sea of dudes’
       problem. Bloomberg, New York
       Google Scholar
     * Cockell CS (2007) Originism: ethics and extraterrestrial life. J Br
       Interplanet Soc 60:147–153
       Google Scholar
     * de Condorcet M (1785) Essai sur l’Application de l’Analyse à la
       Probabilité des Décisions Rendues à la Pluralité des Voix.
       L’imprimerie Royale, Paris
       Google Scholar
     * Fossat P, Bacqué-Cazenave J, De Deurwaerdère P, Delbecque JP,
       Cattaert D (2014) Anxiety-like behavior in crayfish is controlled
       by serotonin. Science 344(6189):1293–1297
       Google Scholar
     * Foucault M (1961) Folie et Déraison: Histoire de la Folie à l’âge
       Classique. Plon, Paris
       Google Scholar
     * Frederick S, Loewenstein G, O’donoghue T (2002) Time discounting
       and time preference: a critical review. J Econ Lit 40(2):351–401
       Google Scholar
     * Funk C, Kennedy B, Podrebarac Sciupac E (2016) U.S. public wary of
       biomedical technologies to ‘enhance’ human abilities. Pew Research
       Center
     * Gibbs S (2016) Microsoft’s racist chatbot returns with drug-smoking
       Twitter meltdown. The Guardian
     * Ginges J, Atran S, Medin D, Shikaki K (2007) Sacred bounds on
       rational resolution of violent political conflict. Proc Natl Acad
       Sci 104(18):7357–7360
       Google Scholar
     * Goertzel B (2016) Infusing advanced AGIs with human-like value
       systems: two theses. J Evol Technol 26(1):50–72
       Google Scholar
     * Hannon B (1998) How might nature value man? Ecol Econ 25:265–279
       Google Scholar
     * Harsanyi JC (1996) Utilities, preferences, and substantive goods.
       Soc Choice Welf 14(1):129–145
       MathSciNet  MATH  Google Scholar
     * Holbrook D (1997) The consequentialistic side of environmental
       ethics. Environ Values 6:87–96
       Google Scholar
     * Hubbard FP (2011) ‘Do androids dream?’: Personhood and intelligent
       artifacts. Temple Law Rev 83:405–441
       Google Scholar
     * Klein A (2016) Robot ranchers monitor animals on giant Australian
       farms. New Scientist
     * Lin P (2016) Why ethics matters for autonomous cars. In: Maurer M,
       Gerdes JC, Lenz B, Winner H (eds) Autonomous driving: technical,
       legal and social aspects. Springer, Berlin, pp 69–85
       Google Scholar
     * Marglin SA (1963) The social rate of discount and the optimal rate
       of investment. Q J Econ 77(1):95–111
       Google Scholar
     * Martin D (2017) Who should decide how machines make morally laden
       decisions? Sci Eng Ethics 23(4):951–967
       Google Scholar
     * Mersky AC, Samaras C (2016) Fuel economy testing of autonomous
       vehicles. Transp Res Part C Emerg Technol 65:31–48
       Google Scholar
     * Metz R (2014) Startup Knightscope is preparing to roll out
       human-size robot patrols. MIT Technol Rev
     * Muehlhauser L, Helm L (2012) Intelligence explosion and machine
       ethics. In: Eden A, Søraker J, Moor JH, Steinhart E (eds)
       Singularity hypotheses: a scientific and philosophical assessment.
       Springer, Berlin, pp 101–126
       Google Scholar
     * Ng YK (1990) Welfarism and utilitarianism: a rehabilitation.
       Utilitas 2(2):171–193
       Google Scholar
     * Ng YK (1999) Utility, informed preference, or happiness: following
       Harsanyi’s argument to its logical conclusion. Soc Choice Welf
       16(2):197–216
       MATH  Google Scholar
     * O’Malley-James JT, Cockell CS, Greaves JS, Raven JA (2014) Swansong
       biospheres II: the final signs of life on terrestrial planets near
       the end of their habitable lifetimes. Int J Astrobiol 13:229–243
       Google Scholar
     * Openshaw S (1983) The modifiable areal unit problem. Geo Books,
       Norwich
       Google Scholar
     * Pew Research Center (2017) Changing attitudes on gay marriage
     * Picard R (1997) Affective computing. MIT Press, Cambridge
       Google Scholar
     * Ritov I, Baron J (1999) Protected values and omission bias. Organ
       Behav Hum Decis Process 79(2):79–94
       Google Scholar
     * Rolston H III (1986) The preservation of natural value in the solar
       system. In: Hargrove EC (ed) Beyond spaceship Earth: environmental
       ethics and the solar system. Sierra Club Books, San Francisco, pp
       140–182
       Google Scholar
     * Rose JD, Arlinghaus R, Cooke SJ, Diggles BK, Sawynok W, Stevens ED,
       Wynne CDL (2014) Can fish really feel pain? Fish Fish 15(1):97–133
       Google Scholar
     * Schienke EW, Tuana N, Brown DA, Davis KJ, Keller K, Shortle JS,
       Stickler M, Baum SD (2009) The role of the NSF Broader Impacts
       Criterion in enhancing research ethics pedagogy. Soc Epistemol
       23(3–4):317–336
       Google Scholar
     * Schienke EW, Baum SD, Tuana N, Davis KJ, Keller K (2011) Intrinsic
       ethics regarding integrated assessment models for climate
       management. Sci Eng Ethics 17(3):503–523
       Google Scholar
     * Stone C (1972) Should trees have standing? Toward legal rights for
       natural objects. South Calif Law Rev 45:450–501
       Google Scholar
     * Stone J, Fernandez NC (2008) To practice what we preach: the use of
       hypocrisy and cognitive dissonance to motivate behavior change. Soc
       Personal Psychol Compass 2(2):1024–1051
       Google Scholar
     * Sunstein CR (2000) Standing for animals. UCLA Law Rev
       47(5):1333–1368
       Google Scholar
     * Tarleton N (2010) Coherent extrapolated volition: a meta-level
       approach to machine ethics. The Singularity Institute, Berkeley, CA
       Google Scholar
     * Thaler R, Sunstein C (2008) Nudge: improving decisions about
       health, wealth, and happiness. Yale University Press, New Haven
       Google Scholar
     * Tonn B (1996) A design for future-oriented government. Futures
       28(5):413–431
       Google Scholar
     * Wallach W, Allen C (2008) Moral machines: teaching robots right
       from wrong. Oxford University Press, Oxford
       Google Scholar
     * Wallach W, Allen C, Smit I (2008) Machine morality: bottom-up and
       top-down approaches for modelling human moral faculties. AI &amp; Soc
       22(4):565–582
       Google Scholar
     * Yampolskiy RV (2013) Artificial intelligence safety engineering:
       why machine ethics is a wrong approach. In: Müller VC (ed)
       Philosophy and theory of artificial intelligence. Springer, Berlin,
       pp 389–396
       Google Scholar
     * Yazawa M (2016) Contested conventions: the struggle to establish
       the constitution and save the union, 1787–1789. Johns Hopkins
       University Press, Baltimore
       Google Scholar
     * Yudkowsky E (2004) Coherent extrapolated volition. The Singularity
       Institute, San Francisco
       Google Scholar

   Download references

Acknowledgements

   Anders Sandberg provided helpful discussion for the development of this
   paper. Tony Barrett and two anonymous reviewers provided helpful
   feedback on earlier drafts. Any errors or shortcomings in the paper are
   the author’s alone. Work on this paper was funded in part by Future of
   Life Institute Grant Number 2015-143911. The views in this paper are
   the author’s and are not necessarily the views of the Future of Life
   Institute or the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute.

Author information

Authors and Affiliations

    1. Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, PO Box 40364, Washington, DC,
       20016, USA
       Seth D. Baum

   Authors
    1. Seth D. Baum
       View author publications
       You can also search for this author in PubMed Google Scholar

Corresponding author

   Correspondence to Seth D. Baum.

Rights and permissions

   Reprints and Permissions

About this article

   Check for updates. Verify currency and authenticity via CrossMark

Cite this article

   Baum, S.D. Social choice ethics in artificial intelligence. AI &amp; Soc
   35, 165–176 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-017-0760-1

   Download citation
     * Received: 17 July 2016
     * Accepted: 16 September 2017
     * Published: 30 September 2017
     * Issue Date: March 2020
     * DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-017-0760-1

Share this article

   Anyone you share the following link with will be able to read this
   content:
   (BUTTON) Get shareable link

   Sorry, a shareable link is not currently available for this article.

   (BUTTON) Copy to clipboard

   Provided by the Springer Nature SharedIt content-sharing initiative

Keywords

     * Artificial intelligence
     * Ethics
     * Social choice
     * Standing
     * Measurement
     * Aggregation

   Access via your institution

Access options

Buy single article

   Instant access to the full article PDF.

   39,95 €

   Price includes VAT (France)
   Buy article PDF

   Rent this article via DeepDyve.

   Learn more about Institutional subscriptions

   Advertisement

search

   Search by keyword or author
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

Navigation

     * Find a journal
     * Publish with us

Discover content

     * Journals A-Z
     * Books A-Z

Publish with us

     * Publish your research
     * Open access publishing

Products and services

     * Our products
     * Librarians
     * Societies
     * Partners and advertisers

Our imprints

     * Springer
     * Nature Portfolio
     * BMC
     * Palgrave Macmillan
     * Apress

     * (BUTTON) Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
     * Your US state privacy rights
     * Accessibility statement
     * Terms and conditions
     * Privacy policy
     * Help and support

   92.184.96.66

   Not affiliated
   Springer Nature

   © 2023 Springer Nature
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-13">
<text>
   #Language Is The Next Great Frontier In AI - RSS

   Subscribe to newsletters
   Subscribe: $29.99/year
   (BUTTON) Sign In
   (BUTTON)
   BETA
   This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking here

More From Forbes

   Nov 30, 2023,07:15am EST
   How Small Businesses And Entrepreneurs Can Benefit From AI
   Nov 29, 2023,09:55pm EST
   Google Paid Big Money To Troll Amazon At Its Cloud Conference
   Nov 28, 2023,03:38pm EST
   Quantum Computing Is Coming Faster Than You Think
   Nov 28, 2023,02:36pm EST
   Amazon Unveils Q, A Generative AI Solution For Enterprise
   Nov 28, 2023,01:19pm EST
   Amazon Introduces New Quantum Chip To Reduce Errors
   Nov 28, 2023,12:13pm EST
   The Social Side Of AI: Think Carefully About The Future
   Nov 28, 2023,09:45am EST
   How Retailers Are Using AI To Manipulate Consumer Shopping
   Nov 27, 2023,10:49pm EST
   To Beat TikTok, YouTubers Embrace Excess And Instant Gratification
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Edit Story
   ForbesInnovationAI

Language Is The Next Great Frontier In AI

   Rob Toews
   Contributor
   Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
   I write about the big picture of artificial intelligence.
   Following
   Click to save this article.
   You'll be asked to sign into your Forbes account.
   Got it
   Feb 13, 2022,05:00pm EST
     * Share to Facebook
     * Share to Twitter
     * Share to Linkedin

   Johannes Gutenberg's printing press, introduced in the fifteenth
   century, transformed society ... [+] through language. The creation of
   machines that can understand language may have an even greater impact.
   Encyclopedia Britannica

   See here for the second part of this article series: A Wave Of
   Billion-Dollar Language AI Startups Is Coming
     __________________________________________________________________

   Language is the cornerstone of human intelligence.

   The emergence of language was the most important intellectual
   development in our species’ history. It is through language that we
   formulate thoughts and communicate them to one another. Language
   enables us to reason abstractly, to develop complex ideas about what
   the world is and could be, and to build on these ideas across
   generations and geographies. Almost nothing about modern civilization
   would be possible without language.

   Building machines that can understand language has thus been a central
   goal of the field of artificial intelligence dating back to its
   earliest days.

   It has proven maddeningly elusive.

   This is because mastering language is what is known as an “AI-complete”
   problem: that is, an AI that can truly understand language the way a
   human can would by implication be capable of any other human-level
   intellectual activity. Put simply, to solve language is to solve AI.
   MORE FROMFORBES ADVISOR

Best Travel Insurance Companies

   By
   Amy Danise
   Editor

Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans

   By
   Amy Danise
   Editor

   This profound and subtle insight is at the heart of the “Turing test,”
   introduced by AI pioneer Alan Turing in a groundbreaking 1950 paper.
   Though often critiqued or misunderstood, the Turing test captures a
   fundamental reality about language and intelligence; as it approaches
   its 75th birthday, it remains as relevant as it was when Turing first
   conceived it.

   Humanity has yet to build a machine intelligence with human-level
   mastery of language. (In other words, no machine intelligence has yet
   passed the Turing test.) But over the past few years researchers have
   achieved startling, game-changing breakthroughs in language AI, also
   called natural language processing (NLP).

   The technology is now at a critical inflection point, poised to make
   the leap from academic research to widespread real-world adoption. In
   the process, broad swaths of the business world and our daily lives
   will be transformed. Given language’s ubiquity, few areas of technology
   will have a more far-reaching impact on society in the years ahead.

Transformers: A Once-In-A-Generation Breakthrough

   The most powerful way to illustrate the capabilities of today’s
   cutting-edge language AI is to start with a few concrete examples.

   Today’s AI can correctly answer complex medical queries—and explain the
   underlying biological mechanisms at play. It can craft nuanced memos
   about how to run effective board meetings. It can write articles
   analyzing its own capabilities and limitations, while convincingly
   pretending to be a human observer. It can produce original, sometimes
   beautiful, poetry and literature.

   (It is worth taking a few moments to inspect these examples yourself.)

   What is behind these astonishing new AI abilities, which just five
   years ago would have been inconceivable?

   In short: the invention of the transformer, a new neural network
   architecture that has unleashed vast new possibilities in AI.

   A group of Google researchers introduced the transformer in late 2017
   in a now-classic research paper.

   Before transformers, the state of the art in NLP—for instance, LSTMs
   and the widely-used Seq2Seq architecture—was based on recurrent neural
   networks. By definition, recurrent neural networks process data
   sequentially—that is, one word at a time, in the order that the words
   appear.

   Transformers’ great innovation is to make language processing
   parallelized, meaning that all the tokens in a given body of text are
   analyzed at the same time rather than in sequence. In order to support
   this parallelization, transformers rely on an AI mechanism known as
   attention. Attention enables a model to consider the relationships
   between words, even if they are far apart in a text, and to determine
   which words and phrases in a passage are most important to “pay
   attention to.”

   Parallelization also makes transformers vastly more computationally
   efficient than RNNs, meaning that they can be trained on larger
   datasets and built with more parameters. One defining characteristic of
   today’s transformer models is their massive size.

   A flurry of innovation followed in the wake of the original transformer
   paper as the world’s leading AI researchers built upon this
   foundational breakthrough.

   The publication of the landmark transformer model BERT came in 2018.
   Created at Google, BERT’s big conceptual advance is its bidirectional
   structure (the B in BERT stands for “bidirectional”). The model “looks
   in both directions” as it analyzes a given word, considering both the
   words that come before and the words that come after, rather than
   working unidirectionally from left to right. This additional context
   allows for richer, more nuanced language modeling.

   BERT remains one of the most important transformer-based models in use,
   frequently treated as a reference against which newer models are
   compared. Much subsequent research on transformers—for instance,
   Facebook’s influential RoBERTa model (2019)—is based on refining BERT.

   Google’s entire search engine today is powered by BERT, one of the most
   far-reaching examples of transformers’ real-world impact.

   Another core vein of research in the world of transformers is OpenAI’s
   family of GPT models. OpenAI published the original GPT in June 2018,
   GPT-2 in February 2019, and GPT-3 in May 2020. Popular open-source
   versions of these models, like GPT-J and GPT-Neo, have followed.

   As the “G” in their names indicates, the GPT models are generative:
   they generate original text output in response to the text input they
   are fed. This is an important distinction between the GPT class of
   models and the BERT class of models. BERT, unlike GPT, does not
   generate new text but instead analyzes existing text (think of
   activities like search, classification, or sentiment analysis).

   GPT’s generative capabilities make these models particularly
   attention-grabbing, since writing appears to be a creative act and the
   output can be astonishingly human-like. Text generation is sometimes
   referred to as “NLP’s party trick.” (All four of the examples linked to
   above are text generation examples from GPT-3.)

   Perhaps the most noteworthy element of the GPT architecture is its
   sheer size. OpenAI has been intentional and transparent about its
   strategy to pursue more advanced language AI capabilities through raw
   scale above all else: more compute, larger training data corpora,
   larger models.

   With 1.5 billion parameters, GPT-2 was the largest model ever built at
   the time of its release. Published less than a year later, GPT-3 was
   two orders of magnitude larger: a whopping 175 billion parameters.
   Rumors have circulated that GPT-4 will contain on the order of 100
   trillion parameters (perhaps not coincidentally, roughly equivalent to
   the number of synapses in the human brain). As a point of comparison,
   the largest BERT model had 340 million parameters.

   As with any machine learning effort today, the performance of these
   models depends above all on the data on which they are trained.

   Today’s transformer-based models learn language by ingesting
   essentially the entire internet. BERT was fed all of Wikipedia (along
   with the digitized texts of thousands of unpublished books). RoBERTa
   improved upon BERT by training on even larger volumes of text from the
   internet. GPT-3’s training dataset was larger still, consisting of half
   a trillion language tokens. Thus, these models’ linguistic outputs and
   behaviors can ultimately be traced to the statistical patterns in all
   the text that humans have previously published online.

   The reason such large training datasets are possible is that
   transformers use self-supervised learning, meaning that they learn from
   unlabeled data. This is a crucial difference between today’s
   cutting-edge language AI models and the previous generation of NLP
   models, which had to be trained with labeled data. Today’s
   self-supervised models can train on far larger datasets than was ever
   previously possible: after all, there is more unlabeled text data than
   labeled text data in the world by many orders of magnitude.

   Some observers point to self-supervised learning, and the vastly larger
   training datasets that this technique unlocks, as the single most
   important driver of NLP’s dramatic performance gains in recent years,
   more so than any other feature of the transformer architecture.

Foundation Models

   Training models on massive datasets with millions or billions of
   parameters requires vast computational resources and engineering
   know-how. This makes large language models prohibitively costly and
   difficult to build. GPT-3, for example, required several thousand
   petaflop/second-days to train—a staggering amount of computational
   resources.

   Because very few organizations in the world have the resources and
   talent to build large language models from scratch, almost all
   cutting-edge NLP models today are adapted from a small handful of base
   models: e.g., BERT, RoBERTa, GPT-2, BART. Almost without exception,
   these models come from the world’s largest tech companies: Google,
   Facebook, OpenAI (which is bankrolled by Microsoft), Nvidia.

   Without anyone quite planning for it, this has resulted in an entirely
   new paradigm for NLP technology development—one that will have profound
   implications for the nascent AI economy.

   This paradigm can be thought of in two basic phases: pre-training and
   fine-tuning.

   In the first phase, a tech giant creates and open-sources a large
   language model: for instance, Google’s BERT or Facebook’s RoBERTa.

   Unlike in previous generations of NLP, in which models had to be built
   for individual language tasks, these massive models are not specialized
   for any particular activity. They have powerful generalized language
   capabilities across functions and topic areas. Out of the box, they
   perform well at the full gamut of activities that comprise linguistic
   competence: language classification, language translation, search,
   question answering, summarization, text generation, conversation. Each
   of these activities on its own presents compelling technological and
   economic opportunities.

   Because they can be adapted to any number of specific end uses, these
   base models are referred to as “pre-trained.”

   In the second phase, downstream users—young startups, academic
   researchers, anyone else who wants to build an NLP model—take these
   pre-trained models and refine them with a small amount of additional
   training data in order to optimize them for their own specific use case
   or market. This step is referred to as “fine-tuning.”

   “Today’s pre-trained models are incredibly powerful, and even more
   importantly, they are publicly available,” said Yinhan Liu, lead author
   on Facebook’s RoBERTa work and now cofounder/CTO of healthcare NLP
   startup BirchAI. “For those teams that have the know-how to
   operationalize transformers, the question becomes: what is the most
   important or impactful use case to which I can apply this technology?”

   Under this “pre-train then fine-tune” paradigm, the heavy lifting is
   done upfront with the creation of the pre-trained model. Even after
   fine-tuning, the end model’s behavior remains largely dictated by the
   pre-trained model’s parameters.

   This makes these pre-trained models incredibly influential. So
   influential, in fact, that Stanford University has recently coined a
   new name for them, “foundation models”, and launched an entire academic
   program devoted to better understanding them: the Center for Research
   on Foundation Models (CRFM). The Stanford team believes that foundation
   models, and the small group of tech giants that have the resources to
   produce them, will exert outsize influence on the future behavior of
   artificial intelligence around the world.

   As the researchers put it: “Foundation models have led to an
   unprecedented level of homogenization: Almost all state-of-the-art NLP
   models are now adapted from one of a few foundation models. While this
   homogenization produces extremely high leverage (any improvements in
   the foundation models can lead to immediate benefits across all of
   NLP), it is also a liability; all AI systems might inherit the same
   problematic biases of a few foundation models.”

   This Stanford effort is drawing attention to a massive looming problem
   for large language models: social bias.

   The source of social bias in AI models is straightforward to summarize
   but insidiously difficult to root out. Because large language models
   (or foundation models, to use the new branding) learn language by
   ingesting what humans have written online, they inevitably inherit the
   prejudices, false assumptions and harmful beliefs of their imperfect
   human progenitors. Just imagine all the fringe subreddits and bigoted
   blogs that must have been included in GPT-3’s vast training data
   corpus.

   The problem has been extensively documented: today’s most prominent
   foundation models all exhibit racist, sexist, xenophobic, and other
   antisocial tendencies. This issue will only grow more acute as
   foundation models become increasingly influential in society. Some
   observers believe that AI bias will eventually become as prominent of
   an issue for consumers, companies and governments as digital threats
   like data privacy or cybersecurity that have come before it—threats
   that were also not fully appreciated at first, because the breakneck
   pace of technological change outstripped society’s ability to properly
   adapt to it.

   There is no silver-bullet solution to the challenge of AI bias and
   toxicity. But as the problem becomes more widely recognized, a number
   of mitigation strategies are being pursued.

   Last month, OpenAI announced that it had developed a new version of
   GPT-3 that is “safer, more helpful, and more aligned” with human
   values. The company used a technique known as reinforcement learning
   from human feedback to fine-tune its models to be less biased and more
   truthful than the original GPT-3. This new version, named InstructGPT,
   is now the default language model that OpenAI makes available to
   customers.

   Historically, Alphabet’s DeepMind has been an outlier among the world’s
   most advanced AI research organizations for not making language AI a
   major focus area. This changed at the end of 2021, with DeepMind
   announcing a collection of important work on large language models.

   Of the three NLP papers that DeepMind published, one is devoted
   entirely to the ethical and social risks of language AI. The paper
   proposes a comprehensive taxonomy of 6 thematic areas and 21 specific
   risks that language models pose, including discrimination, exclusion,
   toxicity and misinformation. DeepMind pledged to make these risks a
   central focus of its NLP research going forward to help ensure that it
   is pursuing innovation in language AI responsibly.

   The fact that this dimension of language AI research—until recently,
   treated as an afterthought or ignored altogether by most of the world’s
   NLP researchers—featured so centrally in DeepMind’s recent foray into
   language AI may be a signal of the field’s shifting priorities moving
   forward.

   Increased regulatory focus on the harms of bias and toxicity in AI
   models will only accelerate this shift. And make no mistake: regulatory
   action on this front is a matter of when, not if.

Beyond Natural Language

   Interestingly, perhaps the most creative use cases for NLP today don’t
   involve natural language at all. In particular, today’s cutting-edge
   language AI technology is powering remarkable breakthroughs in two
   other domains: coding and biology.

   Whether it’s Python, Ruby, or Java, computer programming happens via
   languages. Just like natural languages like English or Swahili,
   programming languages are symbolically represented, follow regular
   rules, and have a robust internal logic. The audience just happens to
   be software compilers rather than other humans.

   It therefore makes sense that the same powerful new technologies that
   have given AI incredible fluency in natural language can likewise be
   applied to programming languages, with similar results.

   Last summer OpenAI announced Codex, a transformer-based model that can
   write computer code astonishingly well. In parallel, GitHub (which is
   allied with OpenAI through its parent company Microsoft) launched a
   productized version of Codex named Copilot.

   To develop Codex, OpenAI took GPT-3 and fine-tuned it on a massive
   volume of publicly available written code from GitHub.

   Codex’s design is simple: human users give it a plain-English
   description of a command or function and Codex turns this description
   into functioning computer code. A user could input into Codex, for
   instance, “crop this image circularly” or “animate this image
   horizontally so that it bounces off the left and right walls”—and Codex
   can produce a snippet of code to implement those actions. (These exact
   examples can be examined on OpenAI’s website.) Codex is most capable in
   Python, but it is proficient in over a dozen programming languages.

   Then, just two weeks ago, DeepMind further advanced the frontiers of AI
   coding with its publication of AlphaCode.

   AlphaCode is an AI system that can compete at a human level in
   programming competitions. In these competitions, which attract hundreds
   of thousands of participants each year, contestants receive a lengthy
   problem statement in English and must construct a complete computer
   program that solves it. Example problems include devising strategies
   for a custom board game or solving an arithmetic-based brain teaser.

   While OpenAI’s Codex can produce short snippets of code in response to
   concrete descriptions, DeepMind’s AlphaCode goes much further. It
   begins to approach the full complexity of real-world programming:
   assessing an abstract problem without a clear solution, devising a
   structured approach to solving it, and then executing on that approach
   with up to hundreds of lines of code. AlphaCode almost seems to display
   that ever-elusive attribute in AI, high-level reasoning.

   As DeepMind’s AlphaCode team wrote: “Creating solutions to unforeseen
   problems is second nature in human intelligence—a result of critical
   thinking informed by experience. For artificial intelligence to help
   humanity, our systems need to be able to develop problem-solving
   capabilities. AlphaCode solves new problems in programming competitions
   that require a combination of critical thinking, logic, algorithms,
   coding, and natural language understanding.”

   Another “language” in which today’s cutting-edge NLP has begun to
   generate remarkable insights is biology, from genomics to proteins.

   Genomics is well-suited to the application of large language models
   because an individual’s entire genetic endowment is encoded in a simple
   four-letter alphabet: A (for adenine), C (for cytosine), G (for
   guanine), and T (for thymine). Every human’s DNA is defined by a string
   of billions of A’s, C’s, G’s and T’s (known as nucleotides) in a
   particular order.

   In many respects DNA functions like a language, with its nucleotide
   sequences exhibiting regular patterns that resemble a kind of
   vocabulary, grammar, and semantics. What does this language say? It
   defines much about who we are, from our height to our eye color to our
   risk of heart disease or substance abuse.

   Large language models are now making rapid progress in deciphering the
   language of DNA, in particular its “noncoding” regions. These noncoding
   regions do not contain genes but rather control genes: they regulate
   how much, when, and where given genes are expressed, giving them a
   central role in the maintenance of life. Noncoding regions comprise 98%
   of our total DNA but until now have remained poorly understood.

   A few months ago, DeepMind introduced a new transformer-based
   architecture that can predict gene expression based on DNA sequence
   with unprecedented accuracy. It does so by considering interactions
   between genes and noncoding DNA sequences at much greater distances
   than was ever before possible. A team at Harvard completed work along
   similar lines to better understand gene expression in corn (fittingly
   naming their model “CornBERT”).

   Another subfield of biology that represents fertile ground for language
   AI is the study of proteins. Proteins are strings of building blocks
   known as amino acids, linked together in a particular order. There are
   20 amino acids in total. Thus, for all their complexity, proteins can
   be treated as tokenized strings—wherein each amino acid, like each word
   in a natural language, is a token—and analyzed accordingly.

   As one example, an AI research team from Salesforce recently built an
   NLP model that “learns the language of proteins” and can generate
   plausible protein sequences that don’t exist in nature with
   prespecified characteristics. The potential applications of this type
   of controllable protein synthesis are tantalizing.

   These efforts are just the beginning. In the months and years ahead,
   language AI will make profound contributions to our understanding of
   how life itself works.

Conclusion

   Language is at the heart of human intelligence. It therefore is and
   must be at the heart of our efforts to build artificial intelligence.
   No sophisticated AI can exist without mastery of language.

   Today, the field of language AI is at an exhilarating inflection point,
   on the cusp of transforming industries and spawning new
   multi-billion-dollar companies. At the same time, it is fraught with
   societal dangers like bias and toxicity that are only now starting to
   get the attention they deserve.

   This article explored the big-picture developments and trends shaping
   the world of language AI today. In a followup article, we canvass
   today’s most exciting NLP startups. A growing group of NLP
   entrepreneurs is applying cutting-edge language AI in creative ways
   across sectors and use cases, generating massive economic value and
   profound industry disruption. Few startup categories hold more promise
   in the years ahead.
     __________________________________________________________________

   See here for Part 2 of this article, which explores today’s most
   promising NLP startups.

   Note: The author is a Partner at Radical Ventures, which is an investor
   in BirchAI.
   Follow me on Twitter.
   Rob Toews
   Rob Toews

     * Editorial Standards
     * Print
     * Reprints &amp; Permissions

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-14">
<text>
   #Language Is The Next Great Frontier In AI - RSS

   Subscribe to newsletters
   Subscribe: $29.99/year
   (BUTTON) Sign In
   (BUTTON)
   BETA
   This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking here

More From Forbes

   Nov 30, 2023,07:15am EST
   How Small Businesses And Entrepreneurs Can Benefit From AI
   Nov 29, 2023,09:55pm EST
   Google Paid Big Money To Troll Amazon At Its Cloud Conference
   Nov 28, 2023,03:38pm EST
   Quantum Computing Is Coming Faster Than You Think
   Nov 28, 2023,02:36pm EST
   Amazon Unveils Q, A Generative AI Solution For Enterprise
   Nov 28, 2023,01:19pm EST
   Amazon Introduces New Quantum Chip To Reduce Errors
   Nov 28, 2023,12:13pm EST
   The Social Side Of AI: Think Carefully About The Future
   Nov 28, 2023,09:45am EST
   How Retailers Are Using AI To Manipulate Consumer Shopping
   Nov 27, 2023,10:49pm EST
   To Beat TikTok, YouTubers Embrace Excess And Instant Gratification
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Edit Story
   ForbesInnovationAI

Language Is The Next Great Frontier In AI

   Rob Toews
   Contributor
   Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
   I write about the big picture of artificial intelligence.
   Following
   Click to save this article.
   You'll be asked to sign into your Forbes account.
   Got it
   Feb 13, 2022,05:00pm EST
     * Share to Facebook
     * Share to Twitter
     * Share to Linkedin

   Johannes Gutenberg's printing press, introduced in the fifteenth
   century, transformed society ... [+] through language. The creation of
   machines that can understand language may have an even greater impact.
   Encyclopedia Britannica

   See here for the second part of this article series: A Wave Of
   Billion-Dollar Language AI Startups Is Coming
     __________________________________________________________________

   Language is the cornerstone of human intelligence.

   The emergence of language was the most important intellectual
   development in our species’ history. It is through language that we
   formulate thoughts and communicate them to one another. Language
   enables us to reason abstractly, to develop complex ideas about what
   the world is and could be, and to build on these ideas across
   generations and geographies. Almost nothing about modern civilization
   would be possible without language.

   Building machines that can understand language has thus been a central
   goal of the field of artificial intelligence dating back to its
   earliest days.

   It has proven maddeningly elusive.

   This is because mastering language is what is known as an “AI-complete”
   problem: that is, an AI that can truly understand language the way a
   human can would by implication be capable of any other human-level
   intellectual activity. Put simply, to solve language is to solve AI.
   MORE FROMFORBES ADVISOR

Best Travel Insurance Companies

   By
   Amy Danise
   Editor

Best Covid-19 Travel Insurance Plans

   By
   Amy Danise
   Editor

   This profound and subtle insight is at the heart of the “Turing test,”
   introduced by AI pioneer Alan Turing in a groundbreaking 1950 paper.
   Though often critiqued or misunderstood, the Turing test captures a
   fundamental reality about language and intelligence; as it approaches
   its 75th birthday, it remains as relevant as it was when Turing first
   conceived it.

   Humanity has yet to build a machine intelligence with human-level
   mastery of language. (In other words, no machine intelligence has yet
   passed the Turing test.) But over the past few years researchers have
   achieved startling, game-changing breakthroughs in language AI, also
   called natural language processing (NLP).

   The technology is now at a critical inflection point, poised to make
   the leap from academic research to widespread real-world adoption. In
   the process, broad swaths of the business world and our daily lives
   will be transformed. Given language’s ubiquity, few areas of technology
   will have a more far-reaching impact on society in the years ahead.

Transformers: A Once-In-A-Generation Breakthrough

   The most powerful way to illustrate the capabilities of today’s
   cutting-edge language AI is to start with a few concrete examples.

   Today’s AI can correctly answer complex medical queries—and explain the
   underlying biological mechanisms at play. It can craft nuanced memos
   about how to run effective board meetings. It can write articles
   analyzing its own capabilities and limitations, while convincingly
   pretending to be a human observer. It can produce original, sometimes
   beautiful, poetry and literature.

   (It is worth taking a few moments to inspect these examples yourself.)

   What is behind these astonishing new AI abilities, which just five
   years ago would have been inconceivable?

   In short: the invention of the transformer, a new neural network
   architecture that has unleashed vast new possibilities in AI.

   A group of Google researchers introduced the transformer in late 2017
   in a now-classic research paper.

   Before transformers, the state of the art in NLP—for instance, LSTMs
   and the widely-used Seq2Seq architecture—was based on recurrent neural
   networks. By definition, recurrent neural networks process data
   sequentially—that is, one word at a time, in the order that the words
   appear.

   Transformers’ great innovation is to make language processing
   parallelized, meaning that all the tokens in a given body of text are
   analyzed at the same time rather than in sequence. In order to support
   this parallelization, transformers rely on an AI mechanism known as
   attention. Attention enables a model to consider the relationships
   between words, even if they are far apart in a text, and to determine
   which words and phrases in a passage are most important to “pay
   attention to.”

   Parallelization also makes transformers vastly more computationally
   efficient than RNNs, meaning that they can be trained on larger
   datasets and built with more parameters. One defining characteristic of
   today’s transformer models is their massive size.

   A flurry of innovation followed in the wake of the original transformer
   paper as the world’s leading AI researchers built upon this
   foundational breakthrough.

   The publication of the landmark transformer model BERT came in 2018.
   Created at Google, BERT’s big conceptual advance is its bidirectional
   structure (the B in BERT stands for “bidirectional”). The model “looks
   in both directions” as it analyzes a given word, considering both the
   words that come before and the words that come after, rather than
   working unidirectionally from left to right. This additional context
   allows for richer, more nuanced language modeling.

   BERT remains one of the most important transformer-based models in use,
   frequently treated as a reference against which newer models are
   compared. Much subsequent research on transformers—for instance,
   Facebook’s influential RoBERTa model (2019)—is based on refining BERT.

   Google’s entire search engine today is powered by BERT, one of the most
   far-reaching examples of transformers’ real-world impact.

   Another core vein of research in the world of transformers is OpenAI’s
   family of GPT models. OpenAI published the original GPT in June 2018,
   GPT-2 in February 2019, and GPT-3 in May 2020. Popular open-source
   versions of these models, like GPT-J and GPT-Neo, have followed.

   As the “G” in their names indicates, the GPT models are generative:
   they generate original text output in response to the text input they
   are fed. This is an important distinction between the GPT class of
   models and the BERT class of models. BERT, unlike GPT, does not
   generate new text but instead analyzes existing text (think of
   activities like search, classification, or sentiment analysis).

   GPT’s generative capabilities make these models particularly
   attention-grabbing, since writing appears to be a creative act and the
   output can be astonishingly human-like. Text generation is sometimes
   referred to as “NLP’s party trick.” (All four of the examples linked to
   above are text generation examples from GPT-3.)

   Perhaps the most noteworthy element of the GPT architecture is its
   sheer size. OpenAI has been intentional and transparent about its
   strategy to pursue more advanced language AI capabilities through raw
   scale above all else: more compute, larger training data corpora,
   larger models.

   With 1.5 billion parameters, GPT-2 was the largest model ever built at
   the time of its release. Published less than a year later, GPT-3 was
   two orders of magnitude larger: a whopping 175 billion parameters.
   Rumors have circulated that GPT-4 will contain on the order of 100
   trillion parameters (perhaps not coincidentally, roughly equivalent to
   the number of synapses in the human brain). As a point of comparison,
   the largest BERT model had 340 million parameters.

   As with any machine learning effort today, the performance of these
   models depends above all on the data on which they are trained.

   Today’s transformer-based models learn language by ingesting
   essentially the entire internet. BERT was fed all of Wikipedia (along
   with the digitized texts of thousands of unpublished books). RoBERTa
   improved upon BERT by training on even larger volumes of text from the
   internet. GPT-3’s training dataset was larger still, consisting of half
   a trillion language tokens. Thus, these models’ linguistic outputs and
   behaviors can ultimately be traced to the statistical patterns in all
   the text that humans have previously published online.

   The reason such large training datasets are possible is that
   transformers use self-supervised learning, meaning that they learn from
   unlabeled data. This is a crucial difference between today’s
   cutting-edge language AI models and the previous generation of NLP
   models, which had to be trained with labeled data. Today’s
   self-supervised models can train on far larger datasets than was ever
   previously possible: after all, there is more unlabeled text data than
   labeled text data in the world by many orders of magnitude.

   Some observers point to self-supervised learning, and the vastly larger
   training datasets that this technique unlocks, as the single most
   important driver of NLP’s dramatic performance gains in recent years,
   more so than any other feature of the transformer architecture.

Foundation Models

   Training models on massive datasets with millions or billions of
   parameters requires vast computational resources and engineering
   know-how. This makes large language models prohibitively costly and
   difficult to build. GPT-3, for example, required several thousand
   petaflop/second-days to train—a staggering amount of computational
   resources.

   Because very few organizations in the world have the resources and
   talent to build large language models from scratch, almost all
   cutting-edge NLP models today are adapted from a small handful of base
   models: e.g., BERT, RoBERTa, GPT-2, BART. Almost without exception,
   these models come from the world’s largest tech companies: Google,
   Facebook, OpenAI (which is bankrolled by Microsoft), Nvidia.

   Without anyone quite planning for it, this has resulted in an entirely
   new paradigm for NLP technology development—one that will have profound
   implications for the nascent AI economy.

   This paradigm can be thought of in two basic phases: pre-training and
   fine-tuning.

   In the first phase, a tech giant creates and open-sources a large
   language model: for instance, Google’s BERT or Facebook’s RoBERTa.

   Unlike in previous generations of NLP, in which models had to be built
   for individual language tasks, these massive models are not specialized
   for any particular activity. They have powerful generalized language
   capabilities across functions and topic areas. Out of the box, they
   perform well at the full gamut of activities that comprise linguistic
   competence: language classification, language translation, search,
   question answering, summarization, text generation, conversation. Each
   of these activities on its own presents compelling technological and
   economic opportunities.

   Because they can be adapted to any number of specific end uses, these
   base models are referred to as “pre-trained.”

   In the second phase, downstream users—young startups, academic
   researchers, anyone else who wants to build an NLP model—take these
   pre-trained models and refine them with a small amount of additional
   training data in order to optimize them for their own specific use case
   or market. This step is referred to as “fine-tuning.”

   “Today’s pre-trained models are incredibly powerful, and even more
   importantly, they are publicly available,” said Yinhan Liu, lead author
   on Facebook’s RoBERTa work and now cofounder/CTO of healthcare NLP
   startup BirchAI. “For those teams that have the know-how to
   operationalize transformers, the question becomes: what is the most
   important or impactful use case to which I can apply this technology?”

   Under this “pre-train then fine-tune” paradigm, the heavy lifting is
   done upfront with the creation of the pre-trained model. Even after
   fine-tuning, the end model’s behavior remains largely dictated by the
   pre-trained model’s parameters.

   This makes these pre-trained models incredibly influential. So
   influential, in fact, that Stanford University has recently coined a
   new name for them, “foundation models”, and launched an entire academic
   program devoted to better understanding them: the Center for Research
   on Foundation Models (CRFM). The Stanford team believes that foundation
   models, and the small group of tech giants that have the resources to
   produce them, will exert outsize influence on the future behavior of
   artificial intelligence around the world.

   As the researchers put it: “Foundation models have led to an
   unprecedented level of homogenization: Almost all state-of-the-art NLP
   models are now adapted from one of a few foundation models. While this
   homogenization produces extremely high leverage (any improvements in
   the foundation models can lead to immediate benefits across all of
   NLP), it is also a liability; all AI systems might inherit the same
   problematic biases of a few foundation models.”

   This Stanford effort is drawing attention to a massive looming problem
   for large language models: social bias.

   The source of social bias in AI models is straightforward to summarize
   but insidiously difficult to root out. Because large language models
   (or foundation models, to use the new branding) learn language by
   ingesting what humans have written online, they inevitably inherit the
   prejudices, false assumptions and harmful beliefs of their imperfect
   human progenitors. Just imagine all the fringe subreddits and bigoted
   blogs that must have been included in GPT-3’s vast training data
   corpus.

   The problem has been extensively documented: today’s most prominent
   foundation models all exhibit racist, sexist, xenophobic, and other
   antisocial tendencies. This issue will only grow more acute as
   foundation models become increasingly influential in society. Some
   observers believe that AI bias will eventually become as prominent of
   an issue for consumers, companies and governments as digital threats
   like data privacy or cybersecurity that have come before it—threats
   that were also not fully appreciated at first, because the breakneck
   pace of technological change outstripped society’s ability to properly
   adapt to it.

   There is no silver-bullet solution to the challenge of AI bias and
   toxicity. But as the problem becomes more widely recognized, a number
   of mitigation strategies are being pursued.

   Last month, OpenAI announced that it had developed a new version of
   GPT-3 that is “safer, more helpful, and more aligned” with human
   values. The company used a technique known as reinforcement learning
   from human feedback to fine-tune its models to be less biased and more
   truthful than the original GPT-3. This new version, named InstructGPT,
   is now the default language model that OpenAI makes available to
   customers.

   Historically, Alphabet’s DeepMind has been an outlier among the world’s
   most advanced AI research organizations for not making language AI a
   major focus area. This changed at the end of 2021, with DeepMind
   announcing a collection of important work on large language models.

   Of the three NLP papers that DeepMind published, one is devoted
   entirely to the ethical and social risks of language AI. The paper
   proposes a comprehensive taxonomy of 6 thematic areas and 21 specific
   risks that language models pose, including discrimination, exclusion,
   toxicity and misinformation. DeepMind pledged to make these risks a
   central focus of its NLP research going forward to help ensure that it
   is pursuing innovation in language AI responsibly.

   The fact that this dimension of language AI research—until recently,
   treated as an afterthought or ignored altogether by most of the world’s
   NLP researchers—featured so centrally in DeepMind’s recent foray into
   language AI may be a signal of the field’s shifting priorities moving
   forward.

   Increased regulatory focus on the harms of bias and toxicity in AI
   models will only accelerate this shift. And make no mistake: regulatory
   action on this front is a matter of when, not if.

Beyond Natural Language

   Interestingly, perhaps the most creative use cases for NLP today don’t
   involve natural language at all. In particular, today’s cutting-edge
   language AI technology is powering remarkable breakthroughs in two
   other domains: coding and biology.

   Whether it’s Python, Ruby, or Java, computer programming happens via
   languages. Just like natural languages like English or Swahili,
   programming languages are symbolically represented, follow regular
   rules, and have a robust internal logic. The audience just happens to
   be software compilers rather than other humans.

   It therefore makes sense that the same powerful new technologies that
   have given AI incredible fluency in natural language can likewise be
   applied to programming languages, with similar results.

   Last summer OpenAI announced Codex, a transformer-based model that can
   write computer code astonishingly well. In parallel, GitHub (which is
   allied with OpenAI through its parent company Microsoft) launched a
   productized version of Codex named Copilot.

   To develop Codex, OpenAI took GPT-3 and fine-tuned it on a massive
   volume of publicly available written code from GitHub.

   Codex’s design is simple: human users give it a plain-English
   description of a command or function and Codex turns this description
   into functioning computer code. A user could input into Codex, for
   instance, “crop this image circularly” or “animate this image
   horizontally so that it bounces off the left and right walls”—and Codex
   can produce a snippet of code to implement those actions. (These exact
   examples can be examined on OpenAI’s website.) Codex is most capable in
   Python, but it is proficient in over a dozen programming languages.

   Then, just two weeks ago, DeepMind further advanced the frontiers of AI
   coding with its publication of AlphaCode.

   AlphaCode is an AI system that can compete at a human level in
   programming competitions. In these competitions, which attract hundreds
   of thousands of participants each year, contestants receive a lengthy
   problem statement in English and must construct a complete computer
   program that solves it. Example problems include devising strategies
   for a custom board game or solving an arithmetic-based brain teaser.

   While OpenAI’s Codex can produce short snippets of code in response to
   concrete descriptions, DeepMind’s AlphaCode goes much further. It
   begins to approach the full complexity of real-world programming:
   assessing an abstract problem without a clear solution, devising a
   structured approach to solving it, and then executing on that approach
   with up to hundreds of lines of code. AlphaCode almost seems to display
   that ever-elusive attribute in AI, high-level reasoning.

   As DeepMind’s AlphaCode team wrote: “Creating solutions to unforeseen
   problems is second nature in human intelligence—a result of critical
   thinking informed by experience. For artificial intelligence to help
   humanity, our systems need to be able to develop problem-solving
   capabilities. AlphaCode solves new problems in programming competitions
   that require a combination of critical thinking, logic, algorithms,
   coding, and natural language understanding.”

   Another “language” in which today’s cutting-edge NLP has begun to
   generate remarkable insights is biology, from genomics to proteins.

   Genomics is well-suited to the application of large language models
   because an individual’s entire genetic endowment is encoded in a simple
   four-letter alphabet: A (for adenine), C (for cytosine), G (for
   guanine), and T (for thymine). Every human’s DNA is defined by a string
   of billions of A’s, C’s, G’s and T’s (known as nucleotides) in a
   particular order.

   In many respects DNA functions like a language, with its nucleotide
   sequences exhibiting regular patterns that resemble a kind of
   vocabulary, grammar, and semantics. What does this language say? It
   defines much about who we are, from our height to our eye color to our
   risk of heart disease or substance abuse.

   Large language models are now making rapid progress in deciphering the
   language of DNA, in particular its “noncoding” regions. These noncoding
   regions do not contain genes but rather control genes: they regulate
   how much, when, and where given genes are expressed, giving them a
   central role in the maintenance of life. Noncoding regions comprise 98%
   of our total DNA but until now have remained poorly understood.

   A few months ago, DeepMind introduced a new transformer-based
   architecture that can predict gene expression based on DNA sequence
   with unprecedented accuracy. It does so by considering interactions
   between genes and noncoding DNA sequences at much greater distances
   than was ever before possible. A team at Harvard completed work along
   similar lines to better understand gene expression in corn (fittingly
   naming their model “CornBERT”).

   Another subfield of biology that represents fertile ground for language
   AI is the study of proteins. Proteins are strings of building blocks
   known as amino acids, linked together in a particular order. There are
   20 amino acids in total. Thus, for all their complexity, proteins can
   be treated as tokenized strings—wherein each amino acid, like each word
   in a natural language, is a token—and analyzed accordingly.

   As one example, an AI research team from Salesforce recently built an
   NLP model that “learns the language of proteins” and can generate
   plausible protein sequences that don’t exist in nature with
   prespecified characteristics. The potential applications of this type
   of controllable protein synthesis are tantalizing.

   These efforts are just the beginning. In the months and years ahead,
   language AI will make profound contributions to our understanding of
   how life itself works.

Conclusion

   Language is at the heart of human intelligence. It therefore is and
   must be at the heart of our efforts to build artificial intelligence.
   No sophisticated AI can exist without mastery of language.

   Today, the field of language AI is at an exhilarating inflection point,
   on the cusp of transforming industries and spawning new
   multi-billion-dollar companies. At the same time, it is fraught with
   societal dangers like bias and toxicity that are only now starting to
   get the attention they deserve.

   This article explored the big-picture developments and trends shaping
   the world of language AI today. In a followup article, we canvass
   today’s most exciting NLP startups. A growing group of NLP
   entrepreneurs is applying cutting-edge language AI in creative ways
   across sectors and use cases, generating massive economic value and
   profound industry disruption. Few startup categories hold more promise
   in the years ahead.
     __________________________________________________________________

   See here for Part 2 of this article, which explores today’s most
   promising NLP startups.

   Note: The author is a Partner at Radical Ventures, which is an investor
   in BirchAI.
   Follow me on Twitter.
   Rob Toews
   Rob Toews

     * Editorial Standards
     * Print
     * Reprints &amp; Permissions

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-16">
<text>
   Skip to main content

   IFRAME:
   https://tag-manager.frontiersin.org/ns.html?id=GTM-5SXX286&amp;gtm_auth=u-n
   -7MEC83-lilAhi0fqhQ&amp;gtm_preview=env-1&amp;gtm_cookies_win=x

     * (BUTTON) Download Article
       Download Article
          + Download PDF
          + ReadCube
          + EPUB
          + XML (NLM)
       (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
       Share on
          +
          +
          +
       (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
       Export citation
          + EndNote
          + Reference Manager
          + Simple TEXT file
          + BibTex
       (BUTTON)

     * Total views
     * Downloads
     * Citations

   Citation numbers are available from Dimensions
   View article impact
     * View altmetric score

SHARE ON

     *
     *
     *

Edited by

Christelle Langley

   University of Cambridge, United Kingdom

Reviewed by

Alessandro Umbrico

   Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technologies, Department of Human
   and Social Sciences, Cultural Heritage, National Research Council
   (CNR), Italy

Toby Dragon

   Ithaca College, United States

TABLE OF CONTENTS

     *
          + Abstract
          + Introduction
          + Social Intelligence in Humans
          + Socially Intelligent Agents
          + Transparency and Trust in Human-Agent Interaction Through AToM
          + Discussion
          + Author Contributions
          + Funding
          + Author Disclaimer
          + Conflict of Interest
          + Publisher's Note
          + References

     * (BUTTON) Export citation
          + EndNote
          + Reference Manager
          + Simple TEXT file
          + BibTex

   Check for updates

People also looked at

REVIEW article

   Front. Artif. Intell., 28 February 2022
   Sec. AI for Human Learning and Behavior Change
   Volume 5 - 2022 | https://doi.org/10.3389/frai.2022.750763

Supporting Artificial Social Intelligence With Theory of Mind

   [24] Jessica Williams^1^* [24] Stephen M. Fiore^2 [24] Florian
   Jentsch^1
     * ^1Team Performance Laboratory, University of Central Florida,
       Institute for Simulation and Training, Orlando, FL, United States
     * ^2Cognitive Sciences Laboratory, University of Central Florida,
       Institute for Simulation and Training, Orlando, FL, United States

   In this paper, we discuss the development of artificial theory of mind
   as foundational to an agent's ability to collaborate with human team
   members. Agents imbued with artificial social intelligence will require
   various capabilities to gather the social data needed to inform an
   artificial theory of mind of their human counterparts. We draw from
   social signals theorizing and discuss a framework to guide
   consideration of core features of artificial social intelligence. We
   discuss how human social intelligence, and the development of theory of
   mind, can contribute to the development of artificial social
   intelligence by forming a foundation on which to help agents model,
   interpret and predict the behaviors and mental states of humans to
   support human-agent interaction. Artificial social intelligence will
   need the processing capabilities to perceive, interpret, and generate
   combinations of social cues to operate within a human-agent team.
   Artificial Theory of Mind affords a structure by which a socially
   intelligent agent could be imbued with the ability to model their human
   counterparts and engage in effective human-agent interaction. Further,
   modeling Artificial Theory of Mind can be used by an ASI to support
   transparent communication with humans, improving trust in agents, so
   that they may better predict future system behavior based on their
   understanding of and support trust in artificial socially intelligent
   agents.

Introduction

   Robots, virtual assistants, and other kinds of agents imbued with
   artificial intelligence (AI) have been, and will continue to be,
   increasingly implemented across many industries, such as healthcare,
   military, and transportation, to name a few of the many areas that are
   being transformed by advances in these technologies (Misuraca et al.,
   2020). AI has also been useful in numerous different applications, from
   healthcare, such as evaluating and determining treatment in orthopedic
   surgeries (Haleem et al., 2020), to business, where machine learning
   drives marketing decisions (Cuzzolin et al., 2020; Rai, 2020). Though
   artificial intelligence is already applied to a broad range of domains,
   most implementations are generally static, deterministic models that
   function as an expert system (a system of rules defined by a human
   through programmed “if-then” functions), rather than what would be
   considered true artificial intelligence that is comparable to human
   intelligence (Kaplan and Haenlein, 2019).

   Recent technological advances have emerged that attempt to use
   cognitive models to build human-inspired intelligence in artificial
   agents. These tend to rely on black-box models such as machine
   learning, neural networks, deep learning (LeCun et al., 2015), or
   model-based reinforcement learning (Gao et al., 2019). The methods
   these employ to fit data and identify patterns are opaque, providing
   little transparency into the internal processes by which they make
   these determinations (Calder et al., 2018). Thus, the reasons for which
   they exhibit certain behaviors are often not easily interpretable
   (Calder et al., 2018; Rai, 2020). Humans are not capable of replicating
   the processes machine learning models use to discover patterns in data
   (Misuraca et al., 2020), nor how these models rationalize their
   determinations about a system (Bennett and Maruyama, 2021). This has
   led to the development of new areas of research, such as “explainable
   artificial intelligence” (XAI; Gunning et al., 2019). Here, the goal is
   to either, ensure underlying decision processes are less opaque
   (Fernandez et al., 2019), or create techniques to translate, for
   example, ML outputs, into something understandable (Chatzimparmpas et
   al., 2020). In this paper we do not focus on XAI, but, rather, discuss
   the implications of this problem for human-machine teaming and how ASI
   can help address it.

   The lack of transparency in these models contributes to reduced trust
   along a number of dimensions. Most simply, when users are not able to
   understand the behaviors or decisions they observe, there is a loss of
   trust (Miller, 2019). This can decrease acceptance of agent input,
   thereby reducing agent efficacy in coming to reliable determinations
   consistently and justifiably (Horst et al., 2019). This is problematic
   because trust is recognized as a significant and desirable
   characteristic of human-agent interactions (Jacovi et al., 2021).
   Understanding agent decisions fosters the development of trust and is
   fundamental to supporting interaction between users and artificial
   agents (Papagni and Koeszegi, 2021). Ensuring users possess accurate
   perceptions of agent capability and intent, and that they are informed
   of contextually-relevant constraints and other appropriate system
   reliability-related knowledge, will become increasingly important as
   the autonomous capabilities of AI systems advance (Lyons, 2013).

   If a human does not have trust in an agent, they will not delegate
   tasks to it regardless of whether the agent is truly capable and will
   lead to misuse of the AI system. Further, over-reliance on the system
   can lead to human complacency and failing to detect AI system errors
   (Alonso and De La Puente, 2018). The miscalibration of human trust in
   AI, and resulting inappropriately reliance on the agent, will cause
   decreased performance in human-agent teams (Alonso and De La Puente,
   2018). Thus, trust is a key factor in human-agent interaction and
   influences whether a human will rely upon the system (Lyons, 2013). As
   noted above, trust in AI systems is closely related to the level of
   understandability and predictability of a system (Akula et al., 2019).
   Essentially, the humans understanding of the behaviors and decisions of
   a system influence the trust a human will place in the system (Akula et
   al., 2019).

   To promote trust, we suggest that agents will need to be imbued with
   artificial social intelligence (ASI) that can help calibrate outputs of
   their internal models in human-understandable ways. More generally,
   effective human-agent collaboration requires the agent possess social
   intelligence and the communicative and social skills necessary for
   agents to maintain the effective exchange of social information (Fiore
   et al., 2013; Wiltshire et al., 2014). The development of models of
   artificial social intelligence will require interdisciplinary
   collaboration between computer science, AI, and machine learning
   researchers, and social science researchers, such as philosophy,
   cognitive psychology/science, computer science, and social psychology
   (Miller, 2019).

   A well-established component of social intelligence in humans is Theory
   of Mind (ToM). This is generally seen as the ability to recognize and
   attribute mental states, beliefs, desires, and intentions to others. As
   a core process in social cognition, it is fundamental to our ability to
   interact (Chen et al., 2021b). Said another way, social intelligence
   can be considered the manifestation of Theory of Mind in adults. A
   well-developed ToM is strongly correlated with the ability to correctly
   judge the trustworthiness of others because ToM allows us to perform
   behavioral predictions about actions that others will take based on our
   perceptions of them and our knowledge of the situation's context
   (Vinanzi et al., 2019). Further, ToM enables discovery of false or
   incomplete beliefs and knowledge, which can be corrected through
   interventions (Oguntola et al., 2021). Because it is a foundational
   element of human social intelligence, we argue that ToM is crucial for
   developing AI systems that effectively interact with humans in teams or
   in multi-agent systems (Oguntola et al., 2021).

   A critical research need is identification of how to create agents
   capable of theory of mind. One approach could involve adapting models
   of human ToM to serve as an analog in developing an agent that
   possesses an Artificial Theory of Mind (AToM). With this, the ASI agent
   could model a human user's ToM using input humans incorporate, such as
   verbal and non-verbal social cues. Reciprocally, an ASI agent can draw
   from their AToM to help their teammate develop a corresponding model of
   agent theory of mind. As described above, the provision of transparent
   information can help humans understand and interpret agent behavior.
   Transparency helps humans to better understand the agent's actions and
   predict the future behavior of the AI system more accurately (Riedl,
   2019). Our point here is that ASI can use its AToM to determine how to
   best communicate information in a way that maintains agent-to-human
   transparency (Lyons, 2013), and that is appropriate for a given humans
   experience level (e.g., expert vs. non-expert users). Through
   transparent interactions, an agent revises its theory of mind about
   another and understand how the other came to a decision or why they
   took an action (Riedl, 2019). Overall, then, transparency in agent
   decision-making processes, as well as supporting interpretable and
   understandable agent behaviors, will foster the development of trust in
   humans. In sum, ASI enabled agents can partake in a dynamic
   give-and-take with their teammates where they draw from their AToM to
   both understand their human counterparts but also intervene to improve
   overall team understanding and function. We next illustrate this with a
   concrete example.

   Consider a situation in which a human-agent team is part of
   internationally-deployed forces. It is not uncommon for such teams to
   experience problems from cultural differences in their operational
   environment. Here, for example, they could be tasked with de-escalating
   an interaction between one of their team members and a civilian native
   to the location they are stationed. Socio-cultural norms and values are
   likely extremely different from the cultures represented in the
   human-agent team (e.g., the customs related to respect may be
   significantly different or more explicitly communicated). An ASI could
   perceive the tenor of the interaction by monitoring the social signals
   and developing a ToM of the relevant parties. From this, the ASI could
   assist in the interaction by facilitating communication using its
   capability to account for each agent's knowledge, beliefs, desires, and
   intentions. Further, the agent could use its own prior experiences,
   modeled after episodic memories (Vinanzi et al., 2019), to make more
   accurate predictions about what might be the best way to remedy the
   situation. Given that such training is standard for military personnel
   (e.g., Brown et al., 2019), it might even be feasible to train an ASI
   for such scenarios. From this, the ASI could maintain richer
   contextually-based knowledge and teammate
   descriptors/evaluations/characteristics, allowing it to identify mental
   model mismatch and predict how those incongruencies may hinder
   interaction. Overall, then, a socially intelligent agent could use its
   models of the culture foreign to the forces, the individuals based on
   their interactions, and historical data of the team members involved,
   to generate conclusions and recommendations.

   The above example provided a relevant illustration of ASI. Just as
   critical, though, is consistency in ASI behavior. Humans are more
   likely to trust agents when they understand and can predict the
   behavior of the system based on prior interactions with the system.
   Consistency and clarity in explanations build trust in the agent's
   determinations. Thus, it is important to maintain not only transparency
   and interpretability in the explanations, but also consistency in agent
   behavior. This will help reinforce the models of the ASI's AToM in
   their human counterparts. When an ASI agent is transparent and provides
   information about itself to human team members, humans can better
   understand the intentions behind agent actions or the logic behind
   determinations (Lyons, 2013). Similarly, providing an ASI with
   transparent information related to human behavior will be essential to
   informing the agent's AToM. This can be employed to facilitate more
   accurate machine predictions and responses, and effective human-agent
   interaction—particularly in complex social situations. An AToM model
   would start with a basic initial state that is iteratively updated with
   each interaction, which is integrated into, and further trains, the
   model through the outcomes from subsequent interactions with a given
   human. Facilitating these interactions and processes will require
   receiving, interpreting, and generating social information arising from
   the interaction (Alonso and De La Puente, 2018).

   In sum, we advance interdisciplinary discussions surrounding the
   development of an Artificial Social Intelligence (ASI) drawing from,
   and relating, concepts from the social, cognitive, and computer
   sciences to identify the interdisciplinary contributions and
   domain-specific requirements necessary for an Artificial Theory of
   Mind. This article is not a survey of existing approaches to machine
   learning, explanation in AI, or interpretability in AI, nor will it
   discuss specific modeling techniques. Such a review is beyond the scope
   of this work. Nonetheless, when appropriate, we touch upon machine
   learning and modeling techniques used in prior research that are
   relevant to our discussion of the development of social intelligence
   and technologies. In the following pages, we provide a review of social
   intelligence and theory of mind in humans, and conceptually adapt and
   apply theories to artificial intelligence. From this, we lay the
   foundation for computer science and AI researchers to understand what
   the constituent elements of an AToM are to support building a robust,
   cognitive model in ASI. Within these sections we also include
   interdisciplinary considerations for the design and building of an ASI
   with a particular emphasis on AToM.

Social Intelligence in Humans

   The separability of social elements from other types of intelligence
   has been widely acknowledged since Thorndike's distinction of social
   from mechanical and abstract intelligence (Thorndike, 1920)—this work
   is often pointed to as one of the earliest instances of attempting to
   define social intelligence. Definitions of social intelligence differ
   in notable ways—some emphasize cognitive components, others focus on
   behavior, while others consider psychometric methods to measure social
   skills (Silvera et al., 2001). In addition to disagreements in the
   operational definition of social intelligence, attempts to establish
   reliable methods to quantify social intelligence have also had
   problems. These are related to validity and reliability, particularly
   in non-verbal measures of social intelligence, and have demonstrated a
   potential for self-report biases (Silvera et al., 2001). These
   complications in definition and measurement arise because social
   intelligence is multifaceted in nature, involving a number of
   components that have been identified in prior research (Silvera et al.,
   2001). Because of this, some suggest that social intelligence should be
   understood through the abilities and skills needed for successful
   social interaction. This includes, for example, perceptiveness of
   others' internal states and moods; general ability to deal with others;
   knowledge about social rules and social life; insight and sensitivity
   in complex social situations; use of social techniques to manipulate
   others; perspective-taking; and social adaptation (Silvera et al.,
   2001). These components/abilities of social intelligence can be further
   categorized as being related to either cognitive social intelligence or
   behavioral social intelligence (Lievens and Chan, 2010), a topic we
   turn to next.

Cognition and Behavior

   Cognitive social intelligence involves social perception or the ability
   to understand or decode verbal and non-verbal behaviors of others.
   Behavioral social intelligence is the degree to which one can
   successfully interact or socialize with others (Lievens and Chan,
   2010). For example, the components listed above could be sorted such
   that knowledge about social rules and social life, insight and
   sensitivity in complex social situations, perspective-taking, and
   perceptiveness of others' internal states and moods could all be
   considered manifestations of cognitive social intelligence. As
   complement to this, the components of social adaptation, use of social
   techniques to manipulate others, and the general ability to deal with
   others, could all fall under behavioral social intelligence (Silvera et
   al., 2001).

   This distinction is important because socially intelligent behavior is
   contextual, and what would be considered most appropriate or the
   correct action to take may change depending upon various factors.
   Therefore, successful social interactions require not only the
   knowledge of what matters, but also the knowledge of “when” and “where”
   to engage certain social actions. A critical process in developing
   behavioral social intelligence is the ability to understand other
   agents' and their social interactions, then apply this knowledge in
   contextually varied interactions (Frankovský and Birknerová, 2014). As
   an example, culture would need to be considered as a factor across
   individuals because cultural variables, such as drives, distinctions,
   and behaviors, are culture-specific and affected by cultural-identity
   (Hofstede, 2019). Like all facets of social interaction, we learn about
   the contextual variability when embedded in, and receiving feedback
   from, the social environment. For example, we learn cultural aspects of
   social intelligence through our family and society; as we grow, these
   collectively teach us how to interact with others appropriately and we
   are reinforced on the behaviors that are socially intelligent through
   countless different social interactions. As we next describe, ToM
   allows an individual to reason about and interact with their
   environment, as well as cooperate more effectively with others
   (Cuzzolin et al., 2020).

Theory of Mind in Humans

   In the prior section, we addressed social intelligence at a higher
   level. Here we consider Theory of Mind (ToM), major component of social
   cognition referring to the set of processes that allow an agent to
   attribute mental states to others and successfully engage in social
   interactions with other agents (Cuzzolin et al., 2020). Research
   suggests that the absence of an ability to develop theory of mind can
   substantially limit social interactions. For example, it has been
   posited that individuals with autism experience difficulties with
   social interactions (and/or among other things) as a result of lacking
   ToM and the ability to attribute mental states to others (Bera et al.,
   2019). Theory of mind allows us to recognize other humans as possessing
   unique knowledge, beliefs, and desires, based on which they take
   intentional actions (Wellman, 2011). Rather than assuming other agents
   move in unpredictable, meaningless, or undirected ways, we use this
   ability to form a ToM of other agents to be able to reason about,
   interpret, explain, and predict their behavior (Perner and Lang, 1999;
   Lecce et al., 2015). ToM is a critical component of cognitive
   development. As they grow, children experience countless interactions,
   the outcomes of which become the basis for learning how to distinguish
   meaningful behaviors, and understand which behaviors are rewarded and
   which are punished (Hofstede, 2019).

   Because it is so critical to cognitive development, ToM abilities show
   up in infants by the end of their first year. These are demonstrated
   when infants begin to exhibit gaze-following behaviors and start to
   acknowledge themselves and others as agents who commit intentional acts
   and are capable of subjectively experiencing the world (Wellman, 2011).
   Researchers have demonstrated that 18-month-olds can interpret and
   subsequently perform the actions that a researcher had “intended” to
   demonstrate but failed to. These can be fairly complex, for example,
   such as putting a block in a hole after watching an experimenter fail
   to put the block in its correct hole (Allen, 2015). This illustrates
   some of the roots of cognitive abilities, such as false-belief
   understanding, as the child is able to interpret the desired actions of
   the researcher rather than mimic or imitate their actions. To break
   this down conceptually, the toddler needs to, first, ascertain that the
   literal actions the researcher performed were not the intended/desired
   actions. Second, the toddler has to orient to the researcher's
   objective state of reality (i.e., how to properly use the toy). From
   this the toddler then executes the intended action. Toddlers are also
   able to demonstrate complex visual-perceptual activities indicative of
   a developing theory of mind. For example, at around 14 months, toddlers
   will follow another agent's gaze around a corner or barrier—even moving
   to gain visual information while checking back and forth to visually
   confirm the other agent is simultaneously experiencing a reality that
   is congruent with their own (Wellman, 2011). This demonstrates the
   emergence of the ability to discern whether an agent is aware of events
   and recognize that an agent may not be aware of key circumstances if
   their experiences of situations are not updated, and thus act in
   ignorance of the state of the world (Wellman, 2011).

   Traditionally, this ability, called false-belief understanding, is
   considered a major developmental milestone not achieved until a child
   is about 4 years old (Helming et al., 2014; Scott and Baillargeon,
   2017). False-belief understanding is typically assessed with
   elicited-prediction tasks, such as the well-known Sally-Anne task. In
   this task, children are told a story about two friends, Sally and Anne.
   They are asked to predict where Sally will look for a marble after Anne
   has moved it from the location it was placed by Sally. Because Sally
   did not see this change in location, she is unaware of the marble's
   location and, thus, has a “false-belief”. There are other tasks
   designed to assess more advanced theory of mind and other social
   cognitive processes. One example is a second-order theory of mind
   variation of the Sally-Anne task that asks the child about what a
   third-person saw and their beliefs (Perner and Lang, 1999). This more
   advanced task has the child attribute a theory of mind to a third
   person (“Grace,” a character added as an observer to the Sally-Anne
   scenario). Children who have successfully developed a second-order
   theory of mind false-belief understanding would be able to responds
   that Grace knows that Sally will think the marble is still in the
   basket. They can explain that Grace watched Sally leave, then saw Anne
   move the marble before Sally returned, so Grace knows that Sally did
   not see the marble moved and thus possesses a false belief of the
   location of the marble (Perner and Lang, 1999).

   Adult measures of Theory of Mind reflecting more advanced development
   social-cognitive abilities and processes have also been developed and
   validated. One widely known example is the Strange Stories task, which
   requires the individual to infer the speaker's meaning in the story.
   This is done, not from the utterance, but from the context provided,
   such as facial expressions, preceding context, and social relationships
   (Jolliffe and Baron-Cohen, 1999). The strange stories task has been
   validated in teen and adult populations and has shown to differentiate
   levels of cognitive functioning and ToM ability in individuals
   (Jolliffe and Baron-Cohen, 1999). Additionally, there are a number of
   variations of the strange stories task that have been developed—such as
   strange stories in film (Murray et al., 2017). Other evaluations of ToM
   have also been adapted to have several variations, such as the Reading
   the Mind in the Eyes Task (RMET; Baron-Cohen et al., 2001).

Summary

   An individual's level of social intelligence, in addition to cognitive
   and emotional intelligence, is a strong predictor of performance in
   social interactions (Kaplan and Haenlein, 2019). Unfortunately,
   properly defining and capturing social skills has not proven to be a
   straightforward task for researchers. Although measures and tools,
   through which social intelligence can be quantified, have been
   developed, there is not an established, reliable tool to capture social
   intelligence. Prior researchers have attributed this lack of an
   established tool to deficiencies in existing methodologies of measuring
   social intelligence in humans (Silvera et al., 2001). For example, they
   often require interviewing multiple people (i.e., teachers, peers,
   supervisors, etc.) to assess a single individual, making each
   administration more difficult and time-consuming. Further, the standard
   methods of measurement (i.e., self-report, and behavioral assessment by
   observers) are often not correlated with each other (Silvera et al.,
   2001).

   There are also fundamental problems in trying to compare methodologies
   in social intelligence to other kinds of intelligence testing. The use
   of self-rating methods to measure social intelligence at the level of
   the individual is markedly different from traditional evaluation
   techniques employed in intelligence testing (Kihlstrom and Cantor,
   2000). Though social intelligence differs from traditional intelligence
   testing, this is likely necessary to comprehensively evaluate the
   various ways it is used in social interactions. Thus, methods for
   capturing social intelligence competency are often derived from
   multiple sources, including peer, superior, and self-ratings (Lievens
   and Chan, 2010). In sum, the many distinct components of social
   intelligence, and the variety of methods used to measure it, although
   complex, helps distinguish it from other forms of intelligence (Lievens
   and Chan, 2010).

Socially Intelligent Agents

   Understanding intentions is a complicated task with even humans varying
   in competence depending on their social intelligence. In human-machine
   interactions, failures can occur because AI has neglected the
   importance of social intelligence for gauging intentions. As detailed
   above, this requires an effective exchange of social information, which
   necessitates that the agent is able to understand the meaning of social
   information conveyed by humans and that it is able to convey its own
   interpretable social information—establishing bidirectional reciprocity
   in their understanding the meaning of social information (Wiltshire et
   al., 2014). This is even more complicated when considering contextual
   factors. That is, successful functioning in collaboration with humans
   will require ASI imbued agents learn social and moral norms and the
   implicit knowledge foundational to any social situation. Further, it
   will require that this prior knowledge can be drawn upon to infer what
   others feel and desire, and to predict their behaviors (Bennett and
   Maruyama, 2021).

   For an agent to demonstrate social intelligence, it has to understand
   that intents, feelings, mental states, personalities, and other
   qualities of an individual can be embodied through behavior. Like
   humans, then, agents are provided with a continuous channel of cues and
   signals during interactions that are perceived and displayed. This can
   help cognitively ground interactions so that the intents of an
   individual's immediate actions may be inferred by others and that
   predictions may be made of their proximal and distal goals or future
   actions. More broadly, this information can be used to predict the
   nature and quality of social relationships and establish awareness of
   the overall atmosphere of an interaction (Wiltshire et al., 2014).
   Thus, engineering social cognition requires an understanding of how
   signals are embodied through cues in support of developing agents with
   social intelligence (Fiore et al., 2013; Wiltshire et al., 2014).

   Therefore, ASI will need to be able to adhere to contextually-situated
   social structures (i.e., code of conduct, the format of communication,
   use of honorifics, etc.), to be able to recognize, interpret, and
   convey social signals, and, critically, to interpret how it may shape
   the social scenario through interventions. However, the required
   knowledge and capabilities of an ASI could be purposely limited in
   situated contexts by operationalizing social structures and norms,
   where the standards of socializing and impacts of social expression are
   mappable. Culture, for example, can be mapped to support
   generalizability in an ASI by modeling culture as a set of features
   with differing parameters related to quantified social norms. An
   example of a potential feature of culture is interpersonal distance
   ranges, based on observed proxemics of socially-situated relationships
   in a society (Hofstede, 2019). Others have worked on less tangible
   aspects of culture. For example, Khan et al. (2013) devised an
   algorithm approach for culture sanctioned social metrics (CSSMs) where
   action-impact functions are changed depending on context. In follow on
   work, Bölöni et al. (2018) developed a computational model of social
   norms. This integrated cultural values (e.g., politeness), and
   quantified them using the earlier developed CSSMs. Based on this, an
   agent is able to maximize the successful implementation and enaction of
   norms during social interactions by simultaneously considering how an
   action affects the self and peers. Modeling deep culturally informed
   sets of beliefs/knowledge is particularly relevant to scoping the
   situations in which an ASI is likely to facilitate teaming through
   active interaction or intervention. Considering the spectrum of tasks
   at which artificial agents excel, and where humans struggle, it is
   likely that ASI may provide maximum benefit to teaming scenarios where
   the need for socially informed interventions leverages the kind of
   computationally intensive problem-solving at which AI is already adept.
   Additionally, an ASI should be useful, viable, and applicable whether
   it is embodied or not. Embodiment of an ASI would require more design
   considerations, such as providing affordances for facial expression
   through digital or physical/mechanical display. It does not limit the
   social intelligence required for ASI. Rather it adds to possible
   capabilities for ASI, but the social components can exist even in a
   virtual, or drastically simplified physical environment (Hofstede,
   2019).

   Regardless of how an ASI is implemented, the agent will need to be
   capable of capturing, interpreting, and generating social data through
   the use of social cues and signals—development of which are a result of
   the efforts of the interdisciplinary field of Social Signal Processing
   (SSP). As discussed, next, this utilizes theory from social and
   cognitive sciences, blended with computer science and engineering, to
   establish mechanisms for recognizing and interpreting social signals
   and cues through socially-aware computing (Vinciarelli et al., 2009;
   Fiore et al., 2013; Wiltshire et al., 2014).

Social Signals Processing

   The intents, mental states, and other qualities of an individual are
   embodied through their behavior, which provides a continuous channel of
   signals that are perceived and generated between agents so that one may
   infer the intent of an agents present actions, as well as predict near
   and future goals (Wiltshire et al., 2014). The process by which humans
   interpret social signals from cues is typically an unconscious process
   that brings about, often spontaneous, understanding of social awareness
   in situations (Wiltshire et al., 2014). Research in Social Signal
   Processing (SSP), an interdisciplinary domain that seeks to create
   socially intelligent computers through the modeling, analysis, and
   synthesis of social cues and social signals (Vinciarelli et al., 2009),
   has focused on the kind of behaviors providing critical context to
   identifying the needs of another during joint action.

   Humans, regardless of culture, use social cues such as language, voice,
   facial expressions, and body gestures to convey signals such as
   thoughts, emotions, and intentions to another agent who then senses,
   decodes, and interprets the communications (Joo et al., 2019). These
   signals may either be obvious through direct/unambiguous cues—such as
   if a human agent furrows their brow and states that they are confused
   about a particular aspect of a task. The signals may also not be
   obvious through indirect/ambiguous cues to an agent, who would not be
   able to decode and correctly interpret the meaning behind the social
   cues associated with the communication unless they possess the
   appropriate preceding knowledge. For example, a human might remark they
   are confused while vocal inflections and eye rolls indicate their
   statement is intended to be interpreted sarcastically; thus, the
   intended interpretation of the remark is contradictory to what is
   stated literally. These simple examples illustrate the varied ways cues
   and context interact to help an interactor make mental state
   attributions.

   Social cues are the observable features of an agent utilized as
   potential channels of salient social information and are transmitted as
   a set of physical/physiological actions (Wiltshire et al., 2017).
   Social cues may be a behavior, trait, chemical trace, or action, but
   necessarily are a perceivable stimulus, which allows a person to
   interpret a signal containing within the social cues, or the
   contextualized meaning of a cue or combination of cues, which conveys
   social information in interaction (Poggi and Francesca, 2010; Wiltshire
   et al., 2014). Social signals are meaningful interpretations of cues,
   and contain emotional, cognitive, social, and/or cultural information
   (e.g., mental state attributions or attitudes) that allow for a largely
   unconscious production of social awareness (Wiltshire et al., 2014).
   Interpretation of signals often draws from prior knowledge and
   experiences of social cues that have been established as situated,
   context-dependent social norms (Hogg and Reid, 2006). Conceptually,
   social signals exist at a semantically higher level than cues and are
   sensitive to the combination of cues and how they are
   contextually-situated (Wiltshire et al., 2014).

   Research in SSP has examined the nuances, variability, evolution, and
   combinations of these social signals (Pentland, 2007; Vinciarelli et
   al., 2008) in multiple ways. From the behavioral perspective, Fiore and
   colleagues used social cues and social signals as a foundation for
   social interactions between humans and robots. For example, they
   studied how social cues supporting ToM, when manifested in human-robot
   interactions, can change the mental state attributions made by humans.
   They showed that cues such as robotic proxemic behavior (e.g., how
   close it would come), altered perceptions of a social presence (see
   also Warta et al., 2018). Computationally, the processing of verbal
   social signals has seen advances in analytical techniques (i.e.,
   natural language processing, automatic speech recognition), though
   non-word verbal cues (e.g., laugher, sounds like “um”, “eh”, “hmm”,
   etc.) have been difficult to automatically detect in long utterances.
   Some progress has been made where, for example, deep neural networks
   are able to classify non-word sounds using adaption evolution strategy
   (CMA-ES; Gosztolya, 2022).

   Processing non-verbal interaction, in contrast, is still poorly
   understood, making it difficult to operationalize and understand the
   use of social signals and behavioral cues (Wiltshire et al., 2014; Joo
   et al., 2019). Non-verbal social cues are more difficult to process as
   there are few validated tools available, and much work is still needed
   to be able to consistently differentiate behavioral signals. There has
   been success in applying deep neural networks for the biomechanical
   analysis of human gait, demonstrating high enough accuracy in both
   classification and prediction of gait patterns in individuals to be
   suitable for clinical applications (Horst et al., 2019). Yet the study
   of body language, has shown little progress in this field. The vast
   majority of body language research still utilizes manual behavioral
   coding, but, with the advent of SSP, there has been research into
   automated coding of behaviors made possible through developments in
   computer vision (Joo et al., 2019). For example, Kachur et al. (2020)
   used a personality diagnostics neural network to predict personality
   traits, by taking the priors obtained from a computer vision neural
   network architectures (trained on facial features) as input, in a large
   dataset containing the questionnaires of 11,292 respondents and 28,230
   associated photographs (Kachur et al., 2020). Best et al. (2016) used
   identification of social cues by humans, in a mental state attribution
   task, to train machine classifiers to make ToM like judgments. They
   were able to show how machine learning can develop models capable of
   classifying social interactions and demonstrate its potential to
   develop artificial social intelligence. More recent research has used
   computer vision and facial recognition technology to identify political
   orientation (Kosinski, 2021). Although, applied more generally, the
   capability for an algorithm to enable prediction of personal attributes
   from facial features has great implications for human-AI interactions
   by facilitating the perception of emotional states, personality, or
   other traits by machines, and use this information to adjust their
   behavior according to their understanding of what we are thinking,
   feeling, and doing (Kosinski, 2021).

   Artificial social intelligence will be required to process the social
   data that is embedded in these social cues, both verbal and non-verbal
   (Ambady et al., 2000), and interpret the signals they receive to obtain
   the social information contained within to understand social and moral
   norms (Bennett and Maruyama, 2021). For example, phenomena such as
   attention, politeness, agreement, dislike, etc. are communicated
   through various social cues, that can include facial expressions, voice
   tone, gestures, and posture (Vinciarelli et al., 2008). Because social
   cues convey, either directly or indirectly, interpretable social
   signals that contain information about social actions, interactions,
   emotions, attitudes, and relationships (Poggi and Francesca, 2010),
   this understanding will foster effective interactions between agent and
   human. To help with this, a taxonomy of social cues and signals was
   defined by Wiltshire et al. (2014). This includes five categories of
   social cues which may be extracted and used to predict possible social
   signals: paralinguistic (voice prosody and non-language sounds), facial
   expression (motion and position of facial muscles), gaze (motion and
   position of the eyes and predicted sight-line), kinematics (motion,
   position, and posture of the body), and proxemics (use of interpersonal
   space) (Wiltshire et al., 2014, p. 90840F-4). Their development of a
   social cue taxonomy was motivated by the need to develop and integrate
   sensor capabilities into systems that can receive cues and interpret
   signals.

   The ASI will need to be able to perceive and interpret behavioral,
   non-verbal social signal data as having a symbolic meaning that may be
   obvious or ambiguous, but still follows conventions established by
   social norms (Santoro et al., 2021), much in the same manner as verbal
   social signal data has been utilized. Further, using multiple sensor
   systems for social interactions is important as subtle meanings are
   conveyed through the combination of certain social cues (Joo et al.,
   2019). The essential differences between social cues are necessary to
   be able to sense, decode and interpret social signals and, depending on
   the context for which the agent will be applied (Hofstede, 2019).

   Although there are machine learning solutions for identifying some of
   the spectra of signal patterns under a limited set of conditions, it is
   most likely that ASI will be least challenged when there is a limited,
   scoped set of signals they need to be able to interpret. A limited
   scope would afford the socially-immature ASI an initial foothold to
   build social intelligence in a particular area of application; but as
   ASI has more than just language and complex, deeply seated knowledge
   structures to contend with, ASI will likely need to be able to
   accurately interpret meaning from combinations of gestures and
   verbalizations. The development of ASI will require imbuing agents with
   social interaction abilities that, to be capable of successfully
   interacting, enable encoding, decoding, perception, and interpretation
   of a variety of social signals—a major goal, and challenge, for ASI
   research (Foster, 2019; Joo et al., 2019). However, a true socially
   intelligent agent should be able to engage with a human agent and
   derive their intentions, beliefs, goals (i.e., the ASI develops an
   artificial ToM), and use these models to anticipate what explanations
   or information may be relevant to the given human agent.

Development of an Artificial Theory of Mind

   Development of a theory of mind in humans when interacting with
   another, and how it is used to support that interaction, can be looked
   to as an analog in building an artificial theory of mind (AToM) for
   socially intelligent artificial agents (ASI). Young children learn from
   interactions with family and friends, and feedback “trains” their
   appropriate behavior in social situations. How an ASI is trained is an
   important issue as ASI will necessarily require the capabilities to
   develop an AToM, and use that to determine how to interact. Broadly
   stated, constructing an AToM can be done via development of models for
   agents, or by having agents learn via interactions. The former leaves
   agents with a capability of interacting in narrow contexts, while the
   latter requires significant amounts of interactions. In both cases,
   agents are limited in their ability to engage in socially complex
   situations (Hofstede, 2019). Thus, there is a growing need for ASI to
   be able to more broadly engage in emotional and social cognition,
   including utilization of a theory of mind, to ensure agents can act in
   novel, dynamic, or complex situations (Cuzzolin et al., 2020). We next
   briefly review some of the research addressing portions of this complex
   problem.

   Humans use behavior modeling to intuitively understand what another is
   doing and engage in perspective taking to understand another's point of
   view (Chen et al., 2021a). That is, when humans engage in complex
   social interactions, they perceive others' latent characteristics and
   subliminal cues of mental states and use this to make inferences about
   knowledge or capability, facilitate interactions, and make predictions
   about future actions. To successfully demonstrate AToM, agents need to
   acquire at least rudimentary capabilities in these areas. Current
   agent-modeling approaches use reinforcement learning and imitation
   learning and simply focus on reproducing exhibited behavior, but do not
   account for internal mental states (Oguntola et al., 2021). Thus, they
   do not yet demonstrate capabilities to perceive social signals of human
   agents with whom they are interacting either through verbal cues (i.e.,
   natural language processing) or non-verbal cues (behavioral modeling).
   Related to social signal processing, AI capabilities are still
   developing when it comes to processing and interpreting visual cues
   that link to symbolic social signals. This is the necessary precursor
   for making linkages between actors and objects, but difficulties remain
   in mapping natural language processing as symbols in an agents model to
   objects and situations in their environment (Kovalev et al., 2021) as
   might occur in situations requiring joint attention.

   Interpersonal situations are complicated further when the agent's
   knowledge of the situation has to be created and maintained as well as
   updated. This requires an agent must create and maintain a model of the
   environment of interaction and the perceived social cues and their
   situated signals used in AToM attributions, etc. Further, this must be
   kept online with the ability to retrieve and reprocess it according to
   new contexts or queries so that the agent's knowledge of a situation
   may be used to generate multiple predictions and/or responses, and then
   be able to learn from feedback given some set of new outputs (Kovalev
   et al., 2021). Also necessary to development and updating AToM is the
   capability to integrate prior experiences for use in the current
   context. Here, the agent considers how current data was used for
   current model and would compare that to prior models based upon similar
   cues and signals. Essentially, the agent could infer consistency of
   behavior and use this integration of past and present observations to
   make predictions of future human behavior. Over time, the agent can
   become more accurate and better able to coordinate interactions. For
   example, a developed ASI would be able to able to determine when
   certain information is most beneficial to know and how to provide this
   information to a human collaborator, and either provide information on
   request or interpret the need for information from social signals in
   advance of direct communication. In the teamwork literature, the former
   is known as information pull and the latter is called information push.
   Studies show that high performing teams excel at information push
   (Orasanu, 1990; Stout et al., 1999). In the present context, this could
   involve perceiving the workload of a human collaborator, anticipating
   information needs, and providing necessary information in advance of
   requests without overwhelming the human agent.

   Finally, what is needed are robust methods of assessment for
   determining the accuracy of AToM. The AToM of an ASI will need to be
   evaluated to assess the level of understanding it has of social
   signals; that is, has it learned the meanings behind symbolic social
   behaviors or simply mimicked behavioral sequences gleaned from
   observing prior interactions (Zadeh et al., 2019). How to assess this
   is an open research question. One option is to follow what is done with
   humans where, for example, AToM is indirectly inferred by inducing
   actions that reveal the ASI observer's understanding of the state of
   mind of an agent (Chen et al., 2021b). Another option is to develop
   agent assessments based upon ToM tests used to evaluate social
   intelligence in humans. For example, the advanced theory of mind task
   mentioned earlier (see section Cognition and Behavior), the Strange
   Stories task, has been used in research to evaluate individuals using
   two types of stories: theory of mind stories that require mental state
   attributions (such as persuasion, sarcasm, white lie, misunderstanding,
   or double bluff), and physical stories which require inferences on
   physical events (Lecce et al., 2015). Adapting this would require
   developing a large set of similar stories that could be used to
   training ML models able to distinguish differing mental and physical
   states. Then, agents could be tested whereby NLP is used to “read”
   stories from which attributions are made and appropriate actions
   decided. This aligns with other research that has shown question
   answering to be an effective way to train artificial agents on
   knowledge, though with agents still underperforming humans (Zadeh et
   al., 2019). One could argue that ASI should be subject to evaluation by
   tests of social intelligence intended for humans because they should
   be, at a minimum, capable of performing well on measures of general
   social intelligence (such as the Sally-Anne task or the strange stories
   task) if they are to interact with humans. Additionally, more complex
   NLP techniques could be developed to assess ASI in the context in which
   they will be employed. For example, this could be evaluated by
   considering agent understanding and use of the contextually-relevant
   meaning of mental-states verb activities. Called the
   metarepresentational verbs task (Lecce et al., 2015), this includes
   frequent use of mental-state terms and constructing the statement to
   embed a preposition in the main verb that may be true or false (e.g.,
   Sally thought the marble was in the basket). Further, when considering
   a suite of the aforementioned measures, it might be possible for
   aggregated measures in task batteries can better assess components of
   ToM across varying levels of complexity (Hutchins et al., 2008). Unlike
   traditional evaluation of AI systems that are primarily based on the
   accuracy of its outputs, a psychometric-based evaluation of the level
   of social intelligence or ToM in agents will require going beyond
   numeric labels to properly assess whether the ASI possesses an AToM
   (Zadeh et al., 2019).

Transparency and Trust in Human-Agent Interaction Through AToM

   In this section, we connect our prior sections on social intelligence
   and theory of mind with a core attitude in teaming, that of trust.
   Humans can explain their intentions and decision-making processes in
   ways that are understandable and able to be affirmed by other human
   agents if those intentions are congruent with observable behavior
   (Bennett and Maruyama, 2021). In this way, the normally opaque mental
   state is transparent to the observer, and when actions proceed as
   expected, this helps foster trust. Over time, this helps us to
   understand the minds of other agents and affords us the ability to
   predict future behavior, verify its intent based on these models, and
   interpret what the behavior means. We can develop this trust by using
   multiple channels that make mental states transparent. We can listen to
   what a human agent says, and we can observe actions. In either case, we
   can predict that it will actively and intentionally seek behavior that
   aligns with its desires (Bennett and Maruyama, 2021). In this way,
   consistency in behaviors, helps develop accurate theory of mind (Shvo
   et al., 2020), and enables us to better interact, and establish
   efficient and effective communication (Rabinowitz et al., 2018), which
   are all crucial for collaboration with human teammates (Shergadwala and
   El-Nasr, 2021).

   Considering the above in the context of human-agent teaming illustrates
   the challenge of trust and transparency as it relates to theory of
   mind. Said most succinctly, we can view this as the reciprocal
   formation of theory of mind whereby humans attempt to make attributions
   about the “mental state” of an agent teammate. We know that current AI
   systems are rather opaque, making it difficult for humans to comprehend
   reasoning. Further, this lack of transparency complicates the human's
   ability to determine intentions, or infer what guides agent decisions
   made and actions taken in the pursuit of goals. This lack of
   understanding of how AI systems come to their decisions, can lead to a
   lack of trust in the system. During high-risk situations (e.g., when
   errors can cause harm), this lack of trust is particularly problematic
   and may lead human teammates to reject the AI system (Akula et al.,
   2019; Rai, 2020; Papagni and Koeszegi, 2021).

   The above challenges in trust and transparency illustrate well how the
   development of accurate AToM might alleviate these problems. First, ASI
   can support transparency by using AToM to predict how a human will
   respond to certain interactions. As described, these are based on
   internal models of contextually-relevant information and of prior
   interactions. ASI can use this to develop tailored interactions that
   make their intentions clear to users (Shvo et al., 2020). Agents with
   well-developed AToM are better able to communicate information that
   allows the user to understand why it took a certain action over
   another. From this, humans will be able to calibrate their trust of an
   agent and are more likely to develop an accurate ToM “of” the agent
   teammate. They will then be able to better predict when the system is
   expected to succeed, when the system is expected to fail, when to
   reasonably trust the system to perform as expected, and how to recover
   from an error (DARPA, 2016).

   Our general point is that, to support trust in agents, facilitating the
   human's ToM of an artificial agent is equally as important as
   developing an agent's AToM of the human (Cuzzolin et al., 2020). The
   bi-directionality of these social cognitive processes will require both
   robot-to-human transparency and human-to-robot transparency (Lyons,
   2013). As we've outlined, the opacity of agent decision-making
   processes renders humans unable to conceptualize how agents come to
   certain decisions. But the ability to understand and predict agent
   behavior is foundational to trust in ASI and critical to human-agent
   teaming. As described, there is a cascading set of consequences arising
   from diminished transparency. First, reduced trust in an agent will
   cause human users to not rely on the agent. This could occur even if
   the agent is capable. Second, this leads to under-use or misuse of the
   agent. Third, indiscriminate trust may lead to user complacency and
   failure to detect system failures due to over-reliance on the system
   (Alonso and De La Puente, 2018).

   Trust and transparency is an important and developing area of research
   in human-agent teaming (e.g., Wright et al., 2019; Bhaskara et al.,
   2020; Barnes et al., 2021). Studies investigate a range of factors,
   from system design to team training, to understand how to improve trust
   in human-agent teaming. For example, Talone (2019) investigated the
   effect of transparency in reliability information on trust and
   appropriate use of an autonomous robotic teammate. He found that
   participants who were comprehensively informed of their
   robotic-teammates capabilities in different environmental conditions
   (e.g., materials that alter the robot's performance) during
   experimental training, were more likely to exhibit behaviors associated
   with appropriate reliance and increased trust. Those who were trained
   in reliability information of their autonomous robot's capabilities
   were more likely to indicate agreement with the robot's determinations
   of the presence of target objects in environments that did not contain
   materials known to impact the capabilities of the robot. Although not
   directly considering theory of mind “of” the agent, Talone's findings
   suggest that humans were better able to develop a model of their agent
   teammate and use it to better predict when performance would suffer
   depending on conditions in the environment. Thus, the training
   intervention made agent processes more transparent and helped the human
   teammate form a shared mental model (Mathieu et al., 2000) of agent
   capabilities. This suggests that training could be a method for
   developing a “theory of mind” of agent team members. That is, although
   not the objective of this study, methods like Talone (2019) are a
   potential path forward for turning the black-box of agent processes
   into a clear, transparent “glass-box” in which humans can interpret,
   comprehend, and anticipate agent behavior. Developing humans' ToM of an
   AI system within a human-agent team can potentially be accomplished by
   intentional information-sharing and contextually relevant training that
   aims to inform the human on factors that can affect an AI system's
   processing and decision-making. In short, increasing transparency can
   help establish theory of mind, which could then increase trust in the
   agent.

Discussion

   As AI progresses, interdisciplinary research is needed to sure machine
   agents are capable of collaboration. In this paper we have described
   how components of artificial social intelligence, in general, and
   artificial theory of mind, in specific, are foundational to human-agent
   teaming. In the context of human-human collaboration, lacking social
   intelligence hinders individuals in situations that involve the
   exchange of primarily social content without task-directed purpose or
   structure. AI, then, can only be expected to successfully engage in
   those sorts of scenarios effectively if they have social intelligence.
   By extension, a functional ASI could provide value in conditions where
   individuals with low social intelligence, or inadequate social
   intelligence (e.g., cross-cultural settings), may struggle. Guiding
   such research requires we more fully understand what are the key
   conditions (i.e., context, task, interpersonal) under which artificial
   theory of mind is most valuable in a team. Examination of social
   intelligence, its components, manifestation, and impact on human-human
   teaming, and in comparison, to human-agent teaming, helps lay the
   foundation for this research.

   An additional need for such research is development of measures capable
   of assessing agent capability in mental state attributions, and how
   their implementation of these attributions, affects teams. We suggested
   various methods toward this end, including evaluation of agents using
   measures of social intelligence derived in the study of human social
   cognition. It should be noted that measurement of social intelligence
   in humans is still actively being researched as it is difficult to
   operationalize depending on context. Nonetheless, there are tasks that
   have been well-established and are consistent in evaluating social
   cognitive processes at various levels in individuals. Agents will need
   to be evaluated against similar criteria to their human
   counterparts—however, existing social intelligence and ToM assessments
   will need to be uniquely adapted for an ASI agent, such that they can
   receive, interpret, and generate social signal data. Further, the agent
   will also need to be able to develop and maintain dynamic mental models
   and AToM models of the other collaborating agents in the human-agent
   team as an online process that can be updated through processing social
   signal data (Briggs and Scheutz, 2012).

   With the development of these more dynamic forms of ASI, they can
   eventually be implemented in settings potentially too complex for
   humans. Such situations might arise from mismatched mental models on a
   team (e.g., when members lack shared knowledge), or when ad hoc teams
   are formed (e.g., lack familiarity with each other). Here, ASI capable
   of diagnosing mental model mismatch, and intervening as needed, will
   help team more rapidly achieve coordination.

   Future research implementing potential methodologies of modeling Theory
   of Mind in agents of humans, and framing explanations in ways that help
   to support human modeling of an ASI's Artificial Theory of Mind, will
   require an interdisciplinary effort between domains related to social
   sciences, computer science, and computational modeling.

Author Contributions

   JW conceived and prepared this manuscript. SF participated in the
   revision and guided the writing of this manuscript. FJ supervised and
   advised the writing of this manuscript. All authors provided critical
   feedback and helped shape this research. All authors contributed to the
   article and approved the submitted version.

Funding

   This research was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Research Projects
   Agency (DARPA) and the Army Research Office and was accomplished under
   Grant Number W911NF-20-1-0008. The views and conclusions contained in
   this document are those of the authors and should not be interpreted as
   representing the official policies, either expressed or implied, of
   DARPA, the Army Research Office, or the U.S. Government. The Government
   is authorized to reproduce and distribute reprints for Government
   purposes notwithstanding any copyright notation herein.

Author Disclaimer

   Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
   this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect
   the views of DARPA, ARL, or the University of Central Florida.

Conflict of Interest

   The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of
   any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a
   potential conflict of interest.

Publisher's Note

   All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authors
   and do not necessarily represent those of their affiliated
   organizations, or those of the publisher, the editors and the
   reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated in this article, or claim
   that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed or endorsed by
   the publisher.

References

   Akula, A. R., Liu, C., Saba-Sadiya, S., Lu, H., Todorovic, S., Chai, J.
   Y., et al (2019). X-TOM: explaining with theory-of-mind for gaining
   justified human trust. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.06907.
   https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.06907v1

   Google Scholar

   Allen, J. W. (2015). How to help: can more active behavioral measures
   help transcend the infant false-belief debate? N. Ideas Psychol. 39,
   63–72. doi: 10.1016/j.newideapsych.2015.07.008

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Alonso, V., and De La Puente, P. (2018). System transparency in shared
   autonomy: a mini review. Front. Neurorobot. 12, 83. doi:
   10.3389/fnbot.2018.00083

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Ambady, N., Bernieri, F. J., and Richeson, J. A. (2000). Toward a
   histology of social behavior: judgmental accuracy from thin slices of
   the behavioral stream. Adv. Exp. Soc. Psychol. 32, 201–271. doi:
   10.1016/S0065-2601(00)80006-4

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Barnes, M. J., Wang, N., Pynadath, D. V., and Chen, J. Y. (2021).
   Chapter 10 - Human-agent bidirectional transparency. Trust in
   Human-Robot Interaction, 209–232. doi:
   10.1016/B978-0-12-819472-0.00010-1

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Baron-Cohen, S., Wheelwright, S., Hill, J., Raste, Y., and Plumb, I.
   (2001). The “Reading the Mind in the Eyes” Test revised version: a
   study with normal adults, and adults with Asperger syndrome or
   high-functioning autism. J. Child Psychol. Psychiatry Allied Discipl.
   42, 241–251. doi: 10.1111/1469-7610.00715

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bennett, M. T., and Maruyama, Y. (2021). Intensional artificial
   intelligence: from symbol emergence to explainable and empathetic AI.
   arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.11573. https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.11573v1

   Google Scholar

   Bera, A., Randhavane, T., and Manocha, D. (2019). “The emotionally
   intelligent robot: improving socially-aware human prediction in crowded
   environments,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
   Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Long Beach, CA.

   Google Scholar

   Best, A., Warta, S. F., Kapalo, K. A., and Fiore, S. M. (2016). “Of
   mental states and machine learning: how social cues and signals can
   help develop artificial social intelligence,” in Proceedings of the
   Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting (Los Angeles, CA:
   SAGE Publications), 1362–1366. doi: 10.1177/1541931213601314

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bhaskara, A., Skinner, M., and Loft, S. (2020). Agent transparency: a
   review of current theory and evidence. IEEE Trans. Hum. Mach. Syst. 50,
   215–224. doi: 10.1109/THMS.2020.2965529

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Bölöni, L., Singh Bhatia, T., Khan, S. A., Streater, J., and Fiore, S.
   M. (2018). Towards a computational model of social norms. PLoS ONE 13,
   e0195331. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195331

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Briggs, G., and Scheutz, M. (2012). “Multi-modal belief updates in
   multi-robot human-robot dialogue interaction,” in Proceedings of 2012
   Symposium on Linguistic and Cognitive Approaches to Dialogue Agents,
   University of Birmingham, Birmingham.

   Google Scholar

   Brown, D. E., Moenning, A., Guerlain, S., Turnbull, B., Abel, D., and
   Meyer, C. (2019). Design and evaluation of an avatar-based cultural
   training system. J. Defense Model. Simul. 16, 159–174. doi:
   10.1177/1548512918807593

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Calder, M., Craig, C., Culley, D., de Cani, R., Donnelly, C.A.,
   Douglas, R., et al. (2018). Computational modelling for
   decision-making: where, why, what, who and how. Royal Soc. Open Sci.
   5:172096. doi: 10.1098/rsos.172096

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Chatzimparmpas, A., Martins, R. M., Jusufi, I., Kucher, K., Rossi, F.,
   and Kerren, A. (2020). “The state of the art in enhancing trust in
   machine learning models with the use of visualizations,” in Computer
   Graphics Forum, 713–756. doi: 10.1111/cgf.14034

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Chen, B., Hu, Y., Kwiatkowski, R., Song, S., and Lipson, H. (2021a).
   Visual perspective taking for opponent behavior modeling. arXiv
   preprint arXiv:2105.05145. doi: 10.1109/ICRA48506.2021.9562028

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Chen, B., Vondrick, C., and Lipson, H. (2021b). Visual behavior
   modelling for robotic theory of mind. Sci. Rep. 11, 1–14. doi:
   10.1038/s41598-020-77918-x

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Cuzzolin, F., Morelli, A., Cirstea, B., and Sahakian, B. J. (2020).
   Knowing me, knowing you: theory of mind in AI. Psychol. Med. 50,
   1057–1061. doi: 10.1017/S0033291720000835

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   DARPA (2016). Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI). Technical
   Report Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.

   Google Scholar

   Fernandez, A., Herrera, F., Cordon, O., del Jesus, M. J., and
   Marcelloni, F. (2019). Evolutionary fuzzy systems for explainable
   artificial intelligence: why, when, what for, and where to? IEEE
   Comput. Intell. Mag. 14, 69–81. doi: 10.1109/MCI.2018.2881645

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Fiore, S. M., Wiltshire, T. J., Lobato, E. J., Jentsch, F. G., Huang,
   W. H., and Axelrod, B. (2013). Toward understanding social cues and
   signals in human-robot interaction: effects of robot gaze and proxemic
   behavior. Front. Psychol. 4, 859. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00859

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Foster, M. E. (2019). Natural language generation for social robotics:
   opportunities and challenges. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B 374, 20180027.
   doi: 10.1098/rstb.2018.0027

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Frankovský, M., and Birknerová, Z. (2014). Measuring social
   intelligence-the MESI methodology. Asian Soc. Sci. 10, 90. doi:
   10.5539/ass.v10n6p90

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Gao, Y., Yang, F., Frisk, M., Hemandez, D., Peters, C., and Castellano,
   G. (2019). “Learning socially appropriate robot approaching behavior
   toward groups using deep reinforcement learning,” in 2019 28th IEEE
   International Conference on Robot and Human Interactive Communication
   (RO-MAN) (New Delhi: IEEE), 1–8. doi: 10.1109/RO-MAN46459.2019.8956444

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Gosztolya, G. (2022). Optimizing class priors to improve the detection
   of social signals in audio data. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 107, 104541.
   doi: 10.1016/j.engappai.2021.104541

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Gunning, D., Stefik, M., Choi, J., Miller, T., Stumpf, S., and Yang, G.
   Z. (2019). XAI-Explainable artificial intelligence. Sci. Robot. 4, 37.
   doi: 10.1126/scirobotics.aay7120

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Haleem, A., Vaishya, R., Javaid, M., and Khan, I. H. (2020). Artificial
   Intelligence (AI) applications in orthopaedics: an innovative
   technology to embrace. J. Clin. Orthopaed. Trauma 11, S80. doi:
   10.1016/j.jcot.2019.06.012

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Helming, K. A., Strickland, B., and Jacob, P. (2014). Making sense of
   early false-belief understanding. Trends Cogn. Sci. 18, 167–170. doi:
   10.1016/j.tics.2014.01.005

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Hofstede, G. J. (2019). GRASP agents: social first, intelligent later.
   AI Soc. 34, 535–543. doi: 10.1007/s00146-017-0783-7

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Hogg, M. A., and Reid, S. A. (2006). Social identity,
   self-categorization, and the communication of group norms. Commun.
   Theory 16, 7–30. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2885.2006.00003.x

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Horst, F., Lapuschkin, S., Samek, W., Müller, K. R., and Schöllhorn, W.
   I. (2019). Explaining the unique nature of individual gait patterns
   with deep learning. Sci. Rep. 9, 1–13. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-38748-8

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Hutchins, T. L., Bonazinga, L. A., Prelock, P. A., and Taylor, R. S.
   (2008). Beyond false beliefs: The development and psychometric
   evaluation of the Perceptions of Children's Theory of Mind
   Measure-Experimental Version (PCToMM-E). J. Autism Dev. Disord. 38,
   143–155. doi: 10.1007/s10803-007-0377-1

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Jacovi, A., Marasović, A., Miller, T., and Goldberg, Y. (2021).
   “Formalizing trust in artificial intelligence: prerequisites, causes
   and goals of human trust in AI,” in Proceedings of the 2021 ACM
   Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, Virtual
   Event, 624–635. doi: 10.1145/3442188.3445923

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Jolliffe, T., and Baron-Cohen, S. (1999). The strange stories test: a
   replication with high-functioning adults with autism or Asperger
   syndrome. J. Autism Dev. Disord. 29, 395–406. doi:
   10.1023/A:1023082928366

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Joo, H., Simon, T., Cikara, M., and Sheikh, Y. (2019). “Towards social
   artificial intelligence: Nonverbal social signal prediction in a
   triadic interaction,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
   Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. p. 10873–10883. Available
   online at:
   https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_CVPR_2019/papers/Joo_Towards_Soci
   al_Artificial_Intelligence_Nonverbal_Social_Signal_Prediction_in_a_CVPR
   _2019_paper.pdf

   Google Scholar

   Kachur, A., Osin, E., Davydov, D., Shutilov, K., and Novokshonov, A.
   (2020). Assessing the Big Five personality traits using real-life
   static facial images. Sci. Rep. 10, 1–11. doi:
   10.1038/s41598-020-65358-6

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kaplan, A., and Haenlein, M. (2019). Siri, Siri, in my hand: who's the
   fairest in the land? On the interpretations, illustrations, and
   implications of artificial intelligence. Bus. Horizons 62, 15–25. doi:
   10.1016/j.bushor.2018.08.004

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Khan, S. A., Streater, J., Bhatia, T. S., Fiore, S., and Boloni, L.
   (2013). “Learning social calculus with genetic programing,” in The
   Twenty-Sixth International FLAIRS Conference, St. Pete Beach, FL.

   Google Scholar

   Kihlstrom, J. F., and Cantor, N. (2000). “Social intelligence,” in
   Handbook of Intelligence, ed R. J. Sternberg (Cambridge University
   Press), 359–379. doi: 10.1017/CBO9780511807947.017

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kosinski, M. (2021). Facial recognition technology can expose political
   orientation from naturalistic facial images. Sci. Rep. 11, 1–7. doi:
   10.1038/s41598-020-79310-1

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Kovalev, A. K., Shaban, M., Osipov, E., and Panov, A. I. (2021). Vector
   semiotic model for visual question answering. Cogn. Syst. Res. 71,
   52–63. doi: 10.1016/j.cogsys.2021.09.001

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Lecce, S., Bottiroli, S., Bianco, F., Rosi, A., and Cavallini, E.
   (2015). Training older adults on Theory of Mind (ToM): transfer on
   metamemory. Arch. Gerontol. Geriatr. 60, 217–226. doi:
   10.1016/j.archger.2014.10.001

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   LeCun, Y., Bengio, Y., and Hinton, G. (2015). Deep learning. Nature
   521, 436–444. doi: 10.1038/nature14539

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Lievens, F., and Chan, D. (2010). “Practical intelligence, emotional
   intelligence, and social intelligence,” in Handbook of Employee
   Selection, eds J. L. Farr and N. T. Tippins (New York: Routledge/Taylor
   and Francis Group), 339–359. Available online at:
   https://ink.library.smu.edu.sg/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1549&amp;context
   =soss_research

   Google Scholar

   Lyons, J. B. (2013). “Being transparent about transparency: a model for
   human-robot interaction,” in 2013 AAAI Spring Symposium Series,
   Stanford, CA.

   Google Scholar

   Mathieu, J. E., Heffner, T. S., Goodwin, G. F., Salas, E., and
   Cannon-Bowers, J. A. (2000). The influence of shared mental models on
   team process and performance. J. Appl. Psychol. 85, 273. doi:
   10.1037/0021-9010.85.2.273

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Miller, T. (2019). Explanation in artificial intelligence: insights
   from the social sciences. Artif. Intell. 267, 1–38. doi:
   10.1016/j.artint.2018.07.007

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Misuraca, G., van Noordt, C., and Boukli, A. (2020). “The use of AI in
   public services: results from a preliminary mapping across the EU,” in
   Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Theory and Practice
   of Electronic Governance, Athens, 90–99. doi: 10.1145/3428502.3428513

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Murray, K., Johnston, K., Cunnane, H., Kerr, C., Spain, D., Gillan, N.,
   et al. (2017). A new test of advanced theory of mind: the “Strange
   Stories Film Task” captures social processing differences in adults
   with autism spectrum disorders. Autism Res. 10, 1120–1132. doi:
   10.1002/aur.1744

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Oguntola, I., Hughes, D., and Sycara, K. (2021). “Deep interpretable
   models of theory of mind,” in 2021 30th IEEE International Conference
   on Robot and Human Interactive Communication (RO-MAN) (Vancouver:
   IEEE), 657–664. doi: 10.1109/RO-MAN50785.2021.9515505

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Orasanu, J. M. (1990). Shared Mental Models and Crew Decision-Making.
   Princeton, NJ: Princeton University, Cognitive Science Laboratory.

   Google Scholar

   Papagni, G., and Koeszegi, S. (2021). Understandable and trustworthy
   explainable robots: a sensemaking perspective. Paladyn J. Behav. Robot.
   12, 13–30. doi: 10.1515/pjbr-2021-0002

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Pentland, A. (2007). Social signal processing [exploratory DSP]. IEEE
   Signal Process. Mag. 24, 108–111. doi: 10.1109/MSP.2007.4286569

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Perner, J., and Lang, B. (1999). Development of theory of mind and
   executive control. Trends Cogn. Sci. 3, 337–344. doi:
   10.1016/S1364-6613(99)01362-5

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Poggi, I., and Francesca, D. E. (2010). “Cognitive modelling of human
   social signals,” in Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on
   Social Signal Processing, 21–26. doi: 10.1145/1878116.1878124

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Rabinowitz, N., Perbet, F., Song, F., Zhang, C., Eslami, S. A., and
   Botvinick, M. (2018). “Machine theory of mind,” in International
   Conference on Machine Learning, Stockholm, 4218–4227.

   Google Scholar

   Rai, A. (2020). Explainable AI: from black box to glass box. J. Acad.
   Market. Sci. 48, 137–141. doi: 10.1007/s11747-019-00710-5

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Riedl, M. O. (2019). Human-centered artificial intelligence and machine
   learning. Hum. Behav. Emerg. Technol. 1, 33–36. doi: 10.1002/hbe2.117

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Santoro, A., Lampinen, A., Mathewson, K., Lillicrap, T., and Raposo, D.
   (2021). Symbolic behaviour in artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint
   arXiv:2102.03406.https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.03406v2

   Google Scholar

   Scott, R. M., and Baillargeon, R. (2017). Early false-belief
   understanding. Trends Cogn. Sci. 21, 237–249. doi:
   10.1016/j.tics.2017.01.012

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Shergadwala, M. N., and El-Nasr, M. S. (2021). Esports agents with a
   theory of mind: towards better engagement, education, and engineering.
   arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.04940. doi: 10.31219/osf.io/qjcg9

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Shvo, M., Klassen, T. Q., and McIlraith, S. A. (2020). “Towards the
   role of theory of mind in explanation,” in International Workshop on
   Explainable, Transparent Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems
   (Cham: Springer), 75–93. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-51924-7_5

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Silvera, D., Martinussen, M., and Dahl, T. I. (2001). The Tromsø Social
   Intelligence Scale, a self-report measure of social intelligence.
   Scand. J. Psychol. 42, 313–319. doi: 10.1111/1467-9450.00242

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Stout, R. J., Cannon-Bowers, J. A., Salas, E., and Milanovich, D. M.
   (1999). Planning, shared mental models, and coordinated performance: an
   empirical link is established. Hum. Factors 41, 61–71. doi:
   10.1518/001872099779577273

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Talone, A. (2019). The effect of reliability information and risk on
   appropriate reliance in an autonomous robot teammate (Electronic theses
   and dissertations). University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL: United
   States.

   Google Scholar

   Thorndike, E. L. (1920). Intelligence and its uses. Harpers Mag. 140,
   227–235.

   Google Scholar

   Vinanzi, S., Patacchiola, M., Chella, A., and Cangelosi, A. (2019).
   Would a robot trust you? Developmental robotics model of trust and
   theory of mind. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B 374, 20180032. doi:
   10.1098/rstb.2018.0032

   PubMed Abstract | CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Vinciarelli, A., Pantic, M., and Bourlard, H. (2009). Social signal
   processing: survey of an emerging domain. Image Vis. Comput. 27,
   1743–1759. doi: 10.1016/j.imavis.2008.11.007

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Vinciarelli, A., Pantic, M., Bourlard, H., and Pentland, A. (2008).
   “Social signals, their function, and automatic analysis: a survey,” in
   Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Multimodal
   Interfaces, Chania Crete, 61–68. doi: 10.1145/1452392.1452405

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Warta, S. F., Newton, O. B., Song, J., Best, A., and Fiore, S. M.
   (2018). “Effects of social cues on social signals in human-robot
   interaction during a hallway navigation task,” in Proceedings of the
   Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting (Los Angeles, CA:
   SAGE Publications), 1128–1132. doi: 10.1177/1541931218621258

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wellman, H. M. (2011). “Developing a theory of mind,” in The
   Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of Childhood Cognitive Development, ed U.
   Goswami (Wiley-Blackwell), 258–284. doi: 10.1002/9781444325485.ch10

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wiltshire, T. J., Lobato, E. J., Velez, J., Jentsch, F., and Fiore, S.
   M. (2014). “An interdisciplinary taxonomy of social cues and signals in
   the service of engineering robotic social intelligence,” in Unmanned
   Systems Technology XVI (Baltimore, MA: International Society for Optics
   and Photonics). doi: 10.1117/12.2049933

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wiltshire, T. J., Warta, S. F., Barber, D., and Fiore, S. M. (2017).
   Enabling robotic social intelligence by engineering human
   social-cognitive mechanisms. Cogn. Syst. Res. 43, 190–207. doi:
   10.1016/j.cogsys.2016.09.005

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Wright, J. L., Chen, J. Y., and Lakhmani, S. G. (2019). Agent
   transparency and reliability in human-robot interaction: the influence
   on user confidence and perceived reliability. IEEE Trans. Hum. Mach.
   Syst. 50, 254–263. doi: 10.1109/THMS.2019.2925717

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Zadeh, A., Chan, M., Liang, P. P., Tong, E., and Morency, L. P. (2019).
   “Social-IQ: a question answering benchmark for artificial social
   intelligence,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
   Vision and Pattern Recognition, Long Beach, CA, 8807–8817. doi:
   10.1109/CVPR.2019.00901

   CrossRef Full Text | Google Scholar

   Keywords: theory of mind, artificial social intelligence, human-agent
   interaction, social signal processing, social intelligence and
   cognition, transparency

   Citation: Williams J, Fiore SM and Jentsch F (2022) Supporting
   Artificial Social Intelligence With Theory of Mind. Front. Artif.
   Intell. 5:750763. doi: 10.3389/frai.2022.750763

   Received: 31 July 2021; Accepted: 24 January 2022;
   Published: 28 February 2022.

   Edited by:
   Christelle Langley, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom

   Reviewed by:
   Alessandro Umbrico, Italian National Research Council, Italy
   Toby Dragon, Ithaca College, United States

   Copyright © 2022 Williams, Fiore and Jentsch. This is an open-access
   article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution
   License (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums
   is permitted, provided the original author(s) and the copyright
   owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal
   is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use,
   distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with
   these terms.

   *Correspondence: Jessica Williams, jesi.williams@knights.ucf.edu;
   jesi.williams@ucf.edu

This article is part of the Research Topic

   Theory of Mind in Humans and in Machines
   View all 6 Articles

People also looked at

   Download
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-18">
<text>
    #Innovation News Network » Feed Innovation News Network » Comments
   Feed Innovation News Network » Is social intelligence the future of AI?
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

     * Home
     * News
     * Science
          + Physics
          + Chemistry
          + Biology
          + Materials Science
          + Medical Science
               o Health Technology
               o Diseases &amp; Conditions
     * Environment
          + Agriculture
          + Aquaculture
          + Ecotechnology
          + Pollution
     * Energy
          + Energy Metals
          + Renewable Energy
               o Wind Energy
               o Solar Energy
               o Hydropower
          + Nuclear Energy
          + Energy Storage
          + Battery Production
          + Battery Calorimetry
     * Critical Raw Materials
          + Lithium
               o Galvanic Energy
          + Nickel
          + Graphite
          + Rare Earth Elements
          + Helium
          + Hydrogen
     * Technology
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Disruptive Technology
          + Internet of Things
          + Digital Infrastructure
          + Cyber Security
          + Computer Science
     * Electric Vehicles
          + EV Charging Infrastructure
          + EV Energy Storage
          + Battery Recycling
     * Space
          + Space Exploration
          + Space Technology
          + Space Debris
     * Special Reports
     * Publications
          + Special Focus Publications
     * eBooks
     * Partners
     * About Us
          + Testimonials
          + Our Management Team
          + Our Editors
          + Latest Statistics

   Sign in
   Welcome!Log into your account
   ____________________your username
   ____________________your password
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)______
   Forgot your password?
   Privacy Policy
   Password recovery
   Recover your password
   ____________________your email
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)____________

   Search ____________________

   Innovation News Network Innovation News NetworkEU Science, Research &amp;
   Innovation News
   Innovation News Network Innovation News NetworkEU Science, Research &amp;
   Innovation News
     *
     * Science
          + Physics
          + Chemistry
          + Biology
          + Materials Science
          + Medical Science
               o Health Technology
               o Diseases &amp; Conditions
     * Environment
          + Agriculture
          + Aquaculture
          + Ecotechnology
          + Pollution
     * Energy
          + Energy Metals
          + Renewable Energy
               o Wind Energy
               o Solar Energy
               o Hydropower
          + Nuclear Energy
          + Energy Storage
          + Battery Production
          + Battery Calorimetry
     * Critical Raw Materials
          + Lithium
               o Galvanic Energy
          + Nickel
               o Queensland Pacific Metals
          + Graphite
          + Rare Earth Elements
          + Helium
               o Pulsar Helium
          + Hydrogen
     * Technology
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Disruptive Technology
          + Internet of Things
          + Digital Infrastructure
          + Cyber Security
          + Computer Science
     * Electric Vehicles
          + EV Charging Infrastructure
          + EV Energy Storage
          + Battery Recycling
     * Space
          + Space Exploration
          + Space Technology
          + Space Debris

   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
   Facebook
   LinkedIn
   Twitter
     * Subscribe
     * Innovation Talks
     * News
     * Publications
          + Special Focus Publications
     * eBooks
     * Partners
          + Partner News
     * Special Reports
     * About Us
          + Testimonials
          + Our Management Team
          + Our Editors
          + Advanced Search
     * Latest Statistics

     *
     * Science
          + Physics
          + Chemistry
          + Biology
          + Materials Science
          + Medical Science
               o Health Technology
               o Diseases &amp; Conditions
     * Environment
          + Agriculture
          + Aquaculture
          + Ecotechnology
          + Pollution
     * Energy
          + Energy Metals
          + Renewable Energy
               o Wind Energy
               o Solar Energy
               o Hydropower
          + Nuclear Energy
          + Energy Storage
          + Battery Production
          + Battery Calorimetry
     * Critical Raw Materials
          + Lithium
               o Galvanic Energy
          + Nickel
               o Queensland Pacific Metals
          + Graphite
          + Rare Earth Elements
          + Helium
               o Pulsar Helium
          + Hydrogen
     * Technology
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Disruptive Technology
          + Internet of Things
          + Digital Infrastructure
          + Cyber Security
          + Computer Science
     * Electric Vehicles
          + EV Charging Infrastructure
          + EV Energy Storage
          + Battery Recycling
     * Space
          + Space Exploration
          + Space Technology
          + Space Debris

   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
   Facebook
   LinkedIn
   Twitter
     * Subscribe
     * Innovation Talks
     * News
     * Publications
          + Special Focus Publications
     * eBooks
     * Partners
          + Partner News
     * Special Reports
     * About Us
          + Testimonials
          + Our Management Team
          + Our Editors
          + Advanced Search
     * Latest Statistics

Is social intelligence the future of AI?

   By Emily Potts
   Technology
   13th March 2023
   Share
   Facebook
   Twitter
   Linkedin
   Email
   Print

   future of AI © shutterstock/metamorworks

As Artificial Intelligence plays an important role in our everyday lives,
implementing social awareness is the next step toward the future of
Artificial Intelligence (AI), according to researchers.

   Although Siri and Google Assistant have the ability to schedule
   meetings on request, they do not have the social awareness to
   independently prioritise the appointments. A team of researchers has
   argued that the future of AI calls for the implementation of social
   intelligence to ensure that the growth of the technology is not stunted
   by a lack of social skills.

   The work, ‘Artificial Social Intelligence: A Comparative and Holistic
   View,’ is published in CAAI Artificial Intelligence Research.

Artificial Social Intelligence is the future of AI

   “Artificial Intelligence has changed our society and our daily life,”
   said first author Lifeng Fan, National Key Laboratory of General
   Artificial Intelligence, Beijing Institute for General Artificial
   Intelligence (BIGAI). “What is the next important challenge for AI in
   the future? We argue that Artificial Social Intelligence (ASI) is the
   future of AI.”

   ASI includes multiple siloed subfields, including social perception,
   Theory of Mind, and social interaction. The researchers argue that it
   is important to use cognitive science and computational modelling to
   identify the gap between AI systems and human social intelligence, as
   well as current issues and future problems, for future advancements in
   AI.

AI models should incorporate social cues

   “ASI is distinct and challenging compared to our physical understanding
   of the work; it is highly context-dependent,” Fan said. “Here, context
   could be as large as culture and common sense or as little as two
   friends’ shared experience. This unique challenge prohibits standard
   algorithms from tackling ASI problems in real-world environments, which
   are frequently complex, ambiguous, dynamic, stochastic, partially
   observable, and multi-agent.”

   © shutterstock/Blue Planet Studio

   Fan argues that ASI requires a comprehensive approach, as unlike
   contemporary AI systems, improving specific components of an ASI system
   may not always result in improved performance. Instead, the future of
   AI needs technology that has the ability to interpret social cues, such
   as eye-rolling or yawning, to understand the mental state of other
   agents, like intent or belief, to co-operate in a shared task.

   “Multidisciplinary research informs and inspires the study of ASI:
   Studying human social intelligence provides insight into the
   foundation, curriculum, points of comparison, and benchmarks required
   to develop ASI with human-like characteristics,” Fan said.

   “We concentrate on the three most important and inextricably linked
   aspects of social intelligence: social perception, Theory of Mind, and
   social interaction, because they are grounded in well-established
   cognitive science theories and are readily available tools for
   developing computational models in these areas.”

ASI requires a holistic approach

   Fan argues that researchers should take a holistic approach to mimic
   how humans interface with one another and the world around them. For
   this to occur, an open-ended and interactive environment is required,
   as well as consideration for how to introduce better human-like biases
   into ASI models to accelerate the future of AI.

   “To accelerate the future progress of ASI, we recommend taking a more
   holistic approach just as humans do, to utilise different learning
   methods such as lifelong learning, multi-task learning, one-/few-shot
   learning, meta-learning, etc.,” Fan said.

   “We need to define new problems, create new environments and datasets,
   set up new evaluation protocols, and build new computational models.
   The ultimate goal is to equip AI with high-level ASI and lift human
   well-being with the help of Artificial Social Intelligence.”
   Subscribe to our newsletter

Recommended Articles

     *
       Web data
       EDITOR'S PICK
       How public web data will drive the future of AI
     *
       dangers of AI
       EDITOR'S PICK
       Researchers develop a framework to mitigate the potential dangers
       of AI

     * Tags
     * Artificial Intelligence

   Share
   Facebook
   Twitter
   Linkedin
   Email
   Print

   Previous articleHow the comprehensive dynamic model can help with
   designing soft robots
   Next articleValue adding: A major focus for Australian lithium mining
   companies

LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply


   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   Please enter your comment!
   ______________________________
   Please enter your name here
   ______________________________
   You have entered an incorrect email address!
   Please enter your email address here
   ______________________________

   [ ] Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time
   I comment.

   Post Comment

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

Featured Topics

     * Disruptive Technology
     * Computer Science
     * Digital Infrastructure
     * Cyber Security

Partner News

First Hydrogen’s track day will provide test drive of company’s hydrogen...

   30th October 2023

First Hydrogen to host its first ever track event

   16th October 2023

Argentina Lithium closes huge $90m investment by Stellantis

   6th October 2023
   lithium in south america

Codelco and Lithium Power International set to jointly mine for lithium...

   5th October 2023

Advertisements

Latest eBooks

The urgent need to establish a sustainable helium supply

   Launch eBook More Details
   31st October 2023

Floating wind power: Advancing our clean energy future with W2Power

   Launch eBook More Details
   30th October 2023

Latest Partners

   University of Lynchburg

Center for Water Quality at the University of Lynchburg

   28th November 2023

Ocean Grazer: Developing the Ocean Battery for renewable energy storage

   28th November 2023

Similar Articles

AI in businesses to grow with new government guidance

   Technology 30th November 2023
   The UK Government has released new guidance to increase the uptake of
   AI in businesses and ensure workers have the necessary skills.
   Read more

Amazon to provide free AI training to two million people by 2025

   Technology 29th November 2023
   Amazon has revealed that they will provide free AI training to two
   million people via the company’s ‘AI Ready’ initiative by 2025.
   Read more

UK drone superhighway will be completed by 2024

   Technology 28th November 2023
   The world’s largest and longest drone superhighway network, spearheaded
   by Altitude Angel, is set to be complete by May 2024. Read more here.
   Read more

MIAI: Developing innovative AI systems for humans and the environment

   Technology 28th November 2023
   MIAI develops the next generation of AI systems, from hardware and
   embedded architectures to software. Read more here.
   Read more

Similar Articles

2024 forecast for managing data privacy exposure risks

   Technology 27th November 2023
   Discover new strategies that will need to be implemented to protect the
   data privacy of businesses in 2024.
   Read more

Recognising and resisting social engineering attacks

   Technology 27th November 2023
   Lloyd Webb, VP Solutions Engineering EMEA at SentinelOne, explains how
   people should defend against social engineering attacks.
   Read more

Genpact Launches AI Innovation Center in London

   Technology 23rd November 2023
   Genpact has unveiled a groundbreaking initiative today with the
   inauguration of the Genpact AI Innovation Center in London.
   Read more

How innovative technology is ushering in the green energy revolution

   Technology 23rd November 2023
   Discover how innovative technology like AI and Machine Learning will be
   key drivers of the green energy transition.
   Read more

More from Innovation News Network

AI in businesses to grow with new government guidance

   Technology 30th November 2023
   The UK Government has released new guidance to increase the uptake of
   AI in businesses and ensure workers have the necessary skills.
   Read more

Amazon to provide free AI training to two million people by 2025

   Technology 29th November 2023
   Amazon has revealed that they will provide free AI training to two
   million people via the company’s ‘AI Ready’ initiative by 2025.
   Read more

MIAI: Developing innovative AI systems for humans and the environment

   Technology 28th November 2023
   MIAI develops the next generation of AI systems, from hardware and
   embedded architectures to software. Read more here.
   Read more

2024 forecast for managing data privacy exposure risks

   Technology 27th November 2023
   Discover new strategies that will need to be implemented to protect the
   data privacy of businesses in 2024.
   Read more

   Innovation News Network

   ABOUT US

   Innovation News Network brings you the latest science, research and
   innovation news from across the fields of digital healthcare, space
   exploration, e-mobility, biodiversity, aquaculture and much more.

   Disclaimer: www.innovationnewsnetwork.com is an independent portal and
   is not responsible for the content of external sites.

   Please Note: Phone calls may be recorded for training and monitoring
   purposes.
   Contact us: info@innovationnewsnetwork.com

   FOLLOW US
     * Terms &amp; Conditions
     * Helpsheets
     * Green Policy
     * Privacy Policy
     * Feedback
     * General Data Protection Regulation
     * GDPR Policy

   © Pan European Networks Ltd
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-19">
<text>
   #The Debrief » Feed The Debrief » Comments Feed The Debrief »
   5000-Year-Old Tablets Can Now Be Decoded by Artificial Intelligence,
   New Research Reveals Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

     *

   The Debrief The Debrief The Debrief

   Menu logo Menu logo
     * Science
     * Tech
     * Space
     * Defense
     * Aerospace
     * UAP
     * Podcasts
     * Newsletter
     * Submissions
     * About

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   AI Cuneiform AI Cuneiform
   (Image: Wikimedia Commons)

5000-Year-Old Tablets Can Now Be Decoded by Artificial Intelligence, New
Research Reveals

   MJ Banias·November 27, 2023

   A team from Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Johannes
   Gutenberg University Mainz, and Mainz University of Applied Sciences
   has unveiled an AI system capable of deciphering ancient cuneiform
   texts. This novel technology, leveraging 3D models, represents a
   significant advancement in understanding one of humanity’s earliest
   forms of writing.

   Published in The Eurographics Association journal, the researchers’
   study focused on a set of cuneiform tablets from the Frau Professor
   Hilprecht Collection. These tablets primarily originate from ancient
   Mesopotamia, a historical region in present-day Iraq. Often referred to
   as the cradle of civilization, this area is where some of the earliest
   human societies developed. These tablets, in particular, are inscribed
   with a series of symbols, signs, and wedges that form the languages of
   the region, such as Sumerian, Assyrian, and Akkadian.

   Many are over 5,000 years old and offer a glimpse into ancient
   civilizations, covering a wide range of topics from everyday life to
   legal matters.

   “Everything can be found on them: from shopping lists to court
   rulings,” said Hubert Mara, one of the study’s authors. “The tablets
   provide a glimpse into mankind’s past several millennia ago. However,
   they are heavily weathered and thus difficult to decipher even for
   trained eyes.”

   The team turned to AI for help.

   Using a novel AI process to decode ancient cuneiform tablets, they
   leveraged a sophisticated AI model based on the Region-based
   Convolutional Neural Network (R-CNN) architecture, a specialized system
   designed for object recognition. The study utilized a unique dataset
   consisting of 3D models of 1,977 cuneiform tablets, with detailed
   annotations of 21,000 cuneiform signs and 4,700 wedges.

   The AI’s methodology entailed a two-part pipeline: initially, a sign
   detector, built on a RepPoints model with a ResNet18 backbone,
   identified cuneiform characters on the tablets. In simple terms, the
   RepPoints model combs through the ResNet18 collection of images
   connected to the Mesopotamian languages and then combines the patterns
   to ‘see’ the text. This step was crucial for locating the signs
   accurately. Subsequently, the wedge detector, using Point R-CNN with
   advanced features like Feature Pyramid Network (FPN) and RoI Align,
   classified and predicted the wedges’ positions, which forms the basis
   of the cuneiform script’s fundamental elements, allowing the AI, in
   effect, to ‘read.’

   These tools take the 3D scans of the tablets and sift through the
   multitude of measurements of things like the impression depth made by
   the stylus into the clay or the distance between the symbols and
   wedges. This nuanced approach enabled the AI to overcome the challenges
   posed by traditional 2D photographs, such as inconsistent lighting and
   color distractions, thus providing a more accurate analysis of the
   ancient texts.

   Traditional research on ancient texts uses optical character
   recognition software (OCR), which converts scanned images or 2D
   photographs of the writing into machine-readable text.

   “OCR usually works with photographs or scans. This is no problem for
   ink on paper or parchment. In the case of cuneiform tablets, however,
   things are more difficult because the light and the viewing angle
   greatly influence how well certain characters can be identified,” said
   co-author Ernst Stötzner.

   inflatable heat shield inflatable heat shield
   See Also

Flying Saucer? No, But This Inflatable Heat Shield Could Help Astronauts Land
on Mars

   Ancient scrolls, parchment, and old books are easy- they are a 2D
   medium translated into another 2D medium. Cuneiform tablets, however,
   are 3D, and all that depth impacts interpretation.

   To address this, the research team put their AI system through an
   extensive training regimen, utilizing three-dimensional scans and
   supplemental data. A substantial portion of this data was contributed
   by the Mainz University of Applied Sciences, which is currently leading
   a significant project focused on creating 3D models of these ancient
   clay tablets. This enabled the AI to achieve remarkable success in
   accurately identifying the symbols inscribed on the tablets.

   This technology not only democratizes access to these ancient records
   but also opens up new avenues for research, allowing for broader
   analysis and interpretation of historical texts. Future enhancements
   could extend its application to other three-dimensional scripts, such
   as weathered inscriptions found in cemeteries.

   MJ Banias is a journalist and podcaster who covers security and
   technology. He is the host of The Debrief Weekly Report and Cloak &amp;
   Dagger | An OSINT Podcast. You can email MJ at mj@thedebrief.org or
   follow him on Twitter @mjbanias.

   Previous ArticleA Deep Dive into the Anthropology of Searching for ET
   Next Article‘First Ever’ Experiments to Measure Theoretical ‘Quantum
   Flickering’ in an Empty Vacuum Slated for 2024

Related Posts

   The Debrief Weekly Report The Debrief Weekly Report

AI Can Read Cuneiform Now

   This week on The Debrief Weekly Report...

   Podcasts

   AI Cuneiform AI Cuneiform

5000-Year-Old Tablets Can Now Be Decoded by Artificial Intelligence, New
Research Reveals

   ArchaeologyArtificial IntelligenceBreaking News

   AI Smart Gun AI Smart Gun

This Breakthrough AI Smart Gun is Designed to Save Lives, Rather Than Take
Them

   Breaking NewsDefenseTech

   AI arms race AI arms race

The AI Arms Race Will Be The Next Geopolitical Kingmaker, Experts Warn

   Artificial IntelligenceBreaking News

             © Copyright 2023 The Debrief. All Rights Reserved.


 The thoughts, views, and opinions expressed in articles on this site belong
solely to the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of The Debrief, or
            of other groups or individuals featured on this site.

                                  ADVERTISE


                                   CONTACT


                                    ABOUT

                            EDITORIAL GUIDELINES


                                  COPYRIGHT


                                   PRIVACY

     * Send a News Tip
     * The Intelligence Brief
     * Get Our Newsletter

   The Debrief The Debrief The Debrief

     * Science
     * Tech
     * Space
     * Defense
     * Aerospace
     * UAP
     * Podcasts
     * Newsletter
     * Submissions
     * About

     *
     *

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   Type to search or hit ESC to close
   See all results
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-1">
<text>
   Skip to main content
   Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market
   professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv
   Reuters home
     * World (BUTTON)
     * Business (BUTTON)
     * Markets (BUTTON)
     * Sustainability (BUTTON)
     * Legal (BUTTON)
     * Breakingviews
     * Technology (BUTTON)
     * Investigations
     * (BUTTON) More

   (BUTTON) My View
   (BUTTON)
   Register
   (BUTTON)
     * Disrupted

Exclusive: Germany, France and Italy reach agreement on future AI regulation

   By Andreas Rinke
   November 20, 20239:18 PM UTCUpdated ago
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Illustration shows AI (Artificial Intelligence) letters and computer
   motherboard

   AI (Artificial Intelligence) letters are placed on computer motherboard
   in this illustration taken June 23, 2023. REUTERS/Dado
   Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo Acquire Licensing Rights
     * Summary

     * No sanctions should be imposed, joint paper says
     * Commitments would involve large and small providers
     * Paper suggests "mandatory self-regulation through codes of conduct"

   BERLIN, Nov 18 (Reuters) - France, Germany and Italy have reached an
   agreement on how artificial intelligence should be regulated, according
   to a joint paper seen by Reuters, which is expected to accelerate
   negotiations at the European level.

   The three governments support "mandatory self-regulation through codes
   of conduct" for so-called foundation models of AI, which are designed
   to produce a broad range of outputs. But they oppose "un-tested norms."

   "Together we underline that the AI Act regulates the application of AI
   and not the technology as such," the joint paper said. "The inherent
   risks lie in the application of AI systems rather than in the
   technology itself."

   The European Commission, the European Parliament and the EU Council are
   negotiating how the bloc should position itself on this topic.

   The paper explains that developers of foundation models would have to
   define model cards, which are used to provide information about a
   machine learning model.

   "The model cards shall include the relevant information to understand
   the functioning of the model, its capabilities and its limits and will
   be based on best practices within the developers community," the paper
   said.

   "An AI governance body could help to develop guidelines and could check
   the application of model cards," the joint paper said.

   Initially, no sanctions should be imposed, the paper said.

   If violations of the code of conduct are identified after a certain
   period of time, however, a system of sanctions could be set up.

   Germany's Economy Ministry, which is in charge of the topic together
   with the Ministry of Digital Affairs, said laws and state control
   should not regulate AI itself, but rather its application.

   Digital Affairs Minister Volker Wissing told Reuters he was very
   pleased an agreement had been reached with France and Germany to limit
   only the use of AI.

   "We need to regulate the applications and not the technology if we want
   to play in the top AI league worldwide," Wissing said.

   State Secretary for Economic Affairs Franziska Brantner told Reuters it
   was crucial to harness the opportunities and limit the risks.

   "We have developed a proposal that can ensure a balance between both
   objectives in a technological and legal terrain that has not yet been
   defined," Brantner said.

   As governments around the world seek to capture the economic benefits
   of AI, Britain in November hosted its first AI safety summit.

   The German government is hosting a digital summit in Jena, in the state
   of Thuringia, on Monday and Tuesday that will bring together
   representatives from politics, business and science.

   Issues surrounding AI will also be on the agenda when the German and
   Italian governments hold talks in Berlin on Wednesday.

   Reporting by Andreas Rinke; Writing by Maria Martinez; Editing by Mike
   Harrison, Barbara Lewis and Diane Craft

   Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab

Read Next

     * Long March-2F carrier rocket, carrying Shenzhou-14 spacecraft and
       three astronauts, takes off from Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center
       Disruptedcategory

China successfully launches a pilot reusable spacecraft, state media report
       August 5, 2022
     * New Apple products go on sale at flagship Apple Store in New York
       Disruptedcategory

Apple forecasts faster sales growth, strong iPhone demand despite glum
economy
       July 29, 2022
     * Facebook's new rebrand logo Meta is seen on smartpone in front of
       displayed logo of Facebook, Messenger, Intagram, Whatsapp, Oculus
       in this illustration taken
       Disruptedcategory

Meta posts first-ever revenue drop as inflation throttles ad sales
       July 28, 2022
     * YouTube logo in Los Angeles
       Disruptedcategory

YouTube's quarter shows problems Meta may face: TikTok, weakening economy
       July 28, 2022

   LSEG Workspace

More from Reuters

Technology

     * An illuminated Google logo is seen inside an office building in
       Zurich

Canada, Google strike deal to keep news in search results
       Technologycategory · November 29, 2023
       Canada and Google have reached a deal to keep news stories in
       search results and for the internet giant to pay C$100 million
       ($73.6 million) annually to news publishers in the country, a
       Canadian official said on Wednesday.
     * The company logo for Snowflake Inc. is displayed on a banner to
       celebrate the company's IPO at the NYSE in New York
       Technologycategory

Snowflake sees product revenue above estimates on AI-driven demand
       November 29, 2023
     * A man types into a keyboard during the Def Con hacker convention in
       Las Vegas
       Future of Moneycategory

Digital bank robberies key risk for central bank e-money, BIS report warns
       November 29, 2023
     * The U.S Treasury building in Washington.
       Technologycategory

US sanctions cryptocurrency mixer Sinbad over alleged North Korea ties
       November 29, 2023
     * An aerial view of the San Francisco city skyline in California
       World at Workcategory

Unity Software to cut 3.8% of staff in 'company reset'
       November 28, 2023

Site Index

Browse

     * World
     * Business
     * Markets
     * Sustainability
     * Legal
     * Breakingviews
     * Technology
     * Investigations, opens new tab
     * Sports
     * Science
     * Lifestyle

About Reuters

     * About Reuters, opens new tab
     * Careers, opens new tab
     * Reuters News Agency, opens new tab
     * Brand Attribution Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Reuters Leadership, opens new tab
     * Reuters Fact Check, opens new tab
     * Reuters Diversity Report, opens new tab

Stay Informed

     * Download the App (iOS), opens new tab
     * Download the App (Android), opens new tab
     * Newsletters, opens new tab

Information you can trust

   Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
   largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide
   every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and
   international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's
   media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.

Follow Us

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Thomson Reuters Products

     * Westlaw, opens new tab
       Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content,
       attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
     * Onesource, opens new tab
       The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and
       ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
     * Checkpoint, opens new tab
       The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and
       finance professionals.

LSEG Products

     * Workspace, opens new tab
       Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a
       highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.
     * Data Catalogue, opens new tab
       Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market
       data and insights from worldwide sources and experts.
     * World-Check, opens new tab
       Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help
       uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

     * Advertise With Us, opens new tab
     * Advertising Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Coupons, opens new tab
     * Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab

     * Cookies, opens new tab
     * Terms of Use, opens new tab
     * Privacy, opens new tab
     * Digital Accessibility, opens new tab
     * Corrections, opens new tab
     * Site Feedback, opens new tab

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.

   © 2023 Reuters. All rights reserved
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-20">
<text>
   #alternate alternate

     * Resources
     * Blog
     * Journalists

     * Log In
     * Sign Up
     * Data Privacy
     * Send a Release

   Cision PR Newswire: news distribution, targeting and monitoring home
     * News
     * Products
     * Contact

   (BUTTON) Search
   Search When typing in this field, a list of search results will appear
   and be automatically updated as you type. ____________________

   Searching for your content...
   No results found. Please change your search terms and try again.
   (BUTTON)

     * News in Focus
          +
               o Browse News Releases
               o All News Releases
               o All Public Company
               o English-only
               o News Releases Overview
               o Multimedia Gallery
               o All Multimedia
               o All Photos
               o All Videos
               o Multimedia Gallery Overview
               o Trending Topics
               o All Trending Topics
     * Business &amp; Money
          +
               o Auto &amp; Transportation
               o All Automotive &amp; Transportation
               o Aerospace, Defense
               o Air Freight
               o Airlines &amp; Aviation
               o Automotive
               o Maritime &amp; Shipbuilding
               o Railroads and Intermodal Transportation
               o Supply Chain/Logistics
               o Transportation, Trucking &amp; Railroad
               o Travel
               o Trucking and Road Transportation
               o Auto &amp; Transportation Overview
               o View All Auto &amp; Transportation
               o Business Technology
               o All Business Technology
               o Blockchain
               o Broadcast Tech
               o Computer &amp; Electronics
               o Computer Hardware
               o Computer Software
               o Data Analytics
               o Electronic Commerce
               o Electronic Components
               o Electronic Design Automation
               o Financial Technology
               o High Tech Security
               o Internet Technology
               o Nanotechnology
               o Networks
               o Peripherals
               o Semiconductors
               o Business Technology Overview
               o View All Business Technology
               o Entertainment &amp; Media
               o All Entertainment &amp; Media
               o Advertising
               o Art
               o Books
               o Entertainment
               o Film and Motion Picture
               o Magazines
               o Music
               o Publishing &amp; Information Services
               o Radio &amp; Podcast
               o Television
               o Entertainment &amp; Media Overview
               o View All Entertainment &amp; Media
               o Financial Services &amp; Investing
               o All Financial Services &amp; Investing
               o Accounting News &amp; Issues
               o Acquisitions, Mergers and Takeovers
               o Banking &amp; Financial Services
               o Bankruptcy
               o Bond &amp; Stock Ratings
               o Conference Call Announcements
               o Contracts
               o Cryptocurrency
               o Dividends
               o Earnings
               o Earnings Forecasts &amp; Projections
               o Financing Agreements
               o Insurance
               o Investments Opinions
               o Joint Ventures
               o Mutual Funds
               o Private Placement
               o Real Estate
               o Restructuring &amp; Recapitalization
               o Sales Reports
               o Shareholder Activism
               o Shareholder Meetings
               o Stock Offering
               o Stock Split
               o Venture Capital
               o Financial Services &amp; Investing Overview
               o View All Financial Services &amp; Investing
               o General Business
               o All General Business
               o Awards
               o Commercial Real Estate
               o Corporate Expansion
               o Earnings
               o Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
               o Human Resource &amp; Workforce Management
               o Licensing
               o New Products &amp; Services
               o Obituaries
               o Outsourcing Businesses
               o Overseas Real Estate (non-US)
               o Personnel Announcements
               o Real Estate Transactions
               o Residential Real Estate
               o Small Business Services
               o Socially Responsible Investing
               o Surveys, Polls and Research
               o Trade Show News
               o General Business Overview
               o View All General Business
     * Science &amp; Tech
          +
               o Consumer Technology
               o All Consumer Technology
               o Artificial Intelligence
               o Blockchain
               o Cloud Computing/Internet of Things
               o Computer Electronics
               o Computer Hardware
               o Computer Software
               o Consumer Electronics
               o Cryptocurrency
               o Data Analytics
               o Electronic Commerce
               o Electronic Gaming
               o Financial Technology
               o Mobile Entertainment
               o Multimedia &amp; Internet
               o Peripherals
               o Social Media
               o STEM (Science, Tech, Engineering, Math)
               o Supply Chain/Logistics
               o Wireless Communications
               o Consumer Technology Overview
               o View All Consumer Technology
               o Energy &amp; Natural Resources
               o All Energy
               o Alternative Energies
               o Chemical
               o Electrical Utilities
               o Gas
               o General Manufacturing
               o Mining
               o Mining &amp; Metals
               o Oil &amp; Energy
               o Oil and Gas Discoveries
               o Utilities
               o Water Utilities
               o Energy &amp; Natural Resources Overview
               o View All Energy &amp; Natural Resources
               o Environment
               o All Environment
               o Conservation &amp; Recycling
               o Environmental Issues
               o Environmental Policy
               o Environmental Products &amp; Services
               o Green Technology
               o Natural Disasters
               o Environment Overview
               o View All Environment
               o Heavy Industry &amp; Manufacturing
               o All Heavy Industry &amp; Manufacturing
               o Aerospace &amp; Defense
               o Agriculture
               o Chemical
               o Construction &amp; Building
               o General Manufacturing
               o HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning)
               o Machinery
               o Machine Tools, Metalworking and Metallurgy
               o Mining
               o Mining &amp; Metals
               o Paper, Forest Products &amp; Containers
               o Precious Metals
               o Textiles
               o Tobacco
               o Heavy Industry &amp; Manufacturing Overview
               o View All Heavy Industry &amp; Manufacturing
               o Telecommunications
               o All Telecommunications
               o Carriers and Services
               o Mobile Entertainment
               o Networks
               o Peripherals
               o Telecommunications Equipment
               o Telecommunications Industry
               o VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol)
               o Wireless Communications
               o Telecommunications Overview
               o View All Telecommunications
     * Lifestyle &amp; Health
          +
               o Consumer Products &amp; Retail
               o All Consumer Products &amp; Retail
               o Animals &amp; Pets
               o Beers, Wines and Spirits
               o Beverages
               o Bridal Services
               o Cannabis
               o Cosmetics and Personal Care
               o Fashion
               o Food &amp; Beverages
               o Furniture and Furnishings
               o Home Improvement
               o Household, Consumer &amp; Cosmetics
               o Household Products
               o Jewelry
               o Non-Alcoholic Beverages
               o Office Products
               o Organic Food
               o Product Recalls
               o Restaurants
               o Retail
               o Supermarkets
               o Toys
               o Consumer Products &amp; Retail Overview
               o View All Consumer Products &amp; Retail
               o Entertainment &amp; Media
               o All Entertainment &amp; Media
               o Advertising
               o Art
               o Books
               o Entertainment
               o Film and Motion Picture
               o Magazines
               o Music
               o Publishing &amp; Information Services
               o Radio &amp; Podcast
               o Television
               o Entertainment &amp; Media Overview
               o View All Entertainment &amp; Media
               o Health
               o All Health
               o Biometrics
               o Biotechnology
               o Clinical Trials &amp; Medical Discoveries
               o Dentistry
               o FDA Approval
               o Fitness/Wellness
               o Health Care &amp; Hospitals
               o Health Insurance
               o Infection Control
               o International Medical Approval
               o Medical Equipment
               o Medical Pharmaceuticals
               o Mental Health
               o Pharmaceuticals
               o Supplementary Medicine
               o Health Overview
               o View All Health
               o Sports
               o All Sports
               o General Sports
               o Outdoors, Camping &amp; Hiking
               o Sporting Events
               o Sports Equipment &amp; Accessories
               o Sports Overview
               o View All Sports
               o Travel
               o All Travel
               o Amusement Parks and Tourist Attractions
               o Gambling &amp; Casinos
               o Hotels and Resorts
               o Leisure &amp; Tourism
               o Outdoors, Camping &amp; Hiking
               o Passenger Aviation
               o Travel Industry
               o Travel Overview
               o View All Travel
     * Policy &amp; Public Interest
          +
               o Policy &amp; Public Interest
               o All Policy &amp; Public Interest
               o Advocacy Group Opinion
               o Animal Welfare
               o Congressional &amp; Presidential Campaigns
               o Corporate Social Responsibility
               o Domestic Policy
               o Economic News, Trends, Analysis
               o Education
               o Environmental
               o European Government
               o FDA Approval
               o Federal and State Legislation
               o Federal Executive Branch &amp; Agency
               o Foreign Policy &amp; International Affairs
               o Homeland Security
               o Labor &amp; Union
               o Legal Issues
               o Natural Disasters
               o Not For Profit
               o Patent Law
               o Public Safety
               o Trade Policy
               o U.S. State Policy
               o Policy &amp; Public Interest Overview
               o View All Policy &amp; Public Interest
     * People &amp; Culture
          +
               o People &amp; Culture
               o All People &amp; Culture
               o Aboriginal, First Nations &amp; Native American
               o African American
               o Asian American
               o Children
               o Diversity, Equity &amp; Inclusion
               o Hispanic
               o Lesbian, Gay &amp; Bisexual
               o Men's Interest
               o People with Disabilities
               o Religion
               o Senior Citizens
               o Veterans
               o Women
               o People &amp; Culture Overview
               o View All People &amp; Culture
               o In-Language News
               o Arabic
               o español
               o português
               o Česko
               o Danmark
               o Deutschland
               o España
               o France
               o Italia
               o Nederland
               o Norge
               o Polska
               o Portugal
               o Россия
               o Slovensko
               o Suomi
               o Sverige

     * Overview
     * Distribution by PR Newswire
     * Cision IR
     * Guaranteed Paid Placement
     * SocialBoost
     * All Products

     * General Inquiries
     * Editorial Bureaus
     * Partnerships
     * Media Inquiries

     *
     * PR Newswire: news distribution, targeting and monitoring

     * Send a Release
     *
     *
          + ALL CONTACT INFO
          + Contact Us
            888-776-0942
            from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
     *
     *
          + ____________________

     * Send a Release
     * Sign Up
     * Log In
     * Resources
     * Blog
     * Journalists
     * RSS
     * GDPR
     *

     * News in Focus
          + Browse All News
          + Multimedia Gallery
          + Trending Topics
     * Business &amp; Money
          + Auto &amp; Transportation
          + Business Technology
          + Entertainment &amp; Media
          + Financial Services &amp; Investing
          + General Business
     * Science &amp; Tech
          + Consumer Technology
          + Energy &amp; Natural Resources
          + Environment
          + Heavy Industry &amp; Manufacturing
          + Telecommunications
     * Lifestyle &amp; Health
          + Consumer Products &amp; Retail
          + Entertainment &amp; Media
          + Health
          + Sports
          + Travel
     * Policy &amp; Public Interest
     * People &amp; Culture
          + People &amp; Culture
     * Send a Release
     * Sign Up
     * Log In
     * Resources
     * Blog
     * Journalists
     * RSS
     * GDPR
     *

     * Overview
     * Distribution by PR Newswire
     * Cision IR
     * SocialBoost
     * All Products
     * Send a Release
     * Sign Up
     * Log In
     * Resources
     * Blog
     * Journalists
     * RSS
     * GDPR
     *

     * General Inquiries
     * Editorial Bureaus
     * Partnerships
     * Media Inquiries
     * Send a Release
     * Sign Up
     * Log In
     * Resources
     * Blog
     * Journalists
     * RSS
     * GDPR
     *

XTX Markets launching $10 million 'Artificial Intelligence Mathematical
Olympiad Prize'

   (BUTTON) USA - English
     * USA - English

   XTX Markets Logo
     __________________________________________________________________

   News provided by
   XTX Markets

   27 Nov, 2023, 07:32 ET

Share this article

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Share toX
   [Iz9yNquRo7AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC]
   (BUTTON)

   Share this article
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Share toX
   [Iz9yNquRo7AAAAAElFTkSuQmCC]
     __________________________________________________________________

   LONDON, Nov. 27, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- XTX Markets is launching the
   Artificial Intelligence Mathematical Olympiad Prize ('AI-MO Prize'), a
   new $10mn challenge fund designed to spur the creation of a
   publicly-shared AI model capable of winning a gold medal in the
   International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO).

   A grand prize of $5mn will be awarded to the first publicly-shared AI
   model to enter an AI-MO approved competition and perform at a standard
   equivalent to a gold medal in the IMO.

   There will also be a series of progress prizes, totalling up to $5mn,
   for publicly-shared AI models that achieve key milestones towards the
   grand prize.

   The IMO is a prestigious high school maths competition. A gold medal is
   both a benchmark for exceptional performance and a predictor of future
   achievement. Indeed, half of all Fields Medallists participated in the
   IMO in their youth.

   Building on these traditions, the AI-MO Prize will accelerate progress
   beyond large language models like ChatGPT and develop new AI models
   that can reason mathematically. As such, the AI-MO Prize could
   represent a new Turing Test.

   Gregor Dolinar, President, International Mathematical Olympiad,
   commented:

   "Using hard mathematical problems as a benchmark to determine if AI can
   match the highest cognitive functions of human beings is a wonderful
   idea.

   Every year, more than 600 of the best students from more than 110
   countries are challenged with six extremely difficult IMO problems,
   typically only one or two students solve all six IMO problems in the
   allotted nine hours.

   I am sure that many people will be following the AI-MO Prize with great
   excitement, to see when, in the future, AI will match the world's
   brightest young minds."

   Terence Tao, UCLA, Fields Medallist, commented:

   "Despite recent advances, using AI to solve, or at least assist with
   solving, advanced mathematical problems remains an incredibly
   complicated and multifaceted challenge. It will be important to
   experiment with multiple approaches to this goal, and to benchmark the
   performance of each of them.

   The AI-MO Prize promises to provide at least one such set of benchmarks
   which will help compare different AI problem solving strategies at a
   technical level, in a manner that will be accessible and appealing to
   the broader public."

   The prizes will be designed by an AI-MO Advisory Committee (to be
   appointed), including mathematicians, AI and machine learning experts,
   and experienced Olympiad problem-setters.

   The first AI-MO approved competitions will open to participants in
   early 2024. There will be a presentation of progress at the 65th IMO
   which will be held in Bath, England in July 2024.

   Further details as to the competition rules and entry criteria will be
   released in due course.

   Geoff Smith, Former President, International Mathematical Olympiad and
   AI-MO Prize Advisory Committee Member, commented:

   "The ability of modern AI systems to create a facsimile of a human when
   engaging in a written exchange is remarkable. However, this works best
   when there is a large corpus of relevant material already placed on the
   internet by people.

   It will be a far more demanding task to mimic a creative mathematician
   as they engage in abstract reasoning. The global IMO community will be
   delighted to be involved in supporting this competition, as we seek to
   measure AI systems against the best young mathematical minds."

   Simon Coyle, Head of Philanthropy, XTX Markets, commented:

   "XTX Markets is excited to be launching the AI-MO Prize to spur the
   development of AI models capable of mathematical reasoning. We look
   forward to working with mathematicians, scientists and technologists to
   develop the prizes, and to seeing how AI models compare against
   exceptional high-school mathematicians."

   For more information and updates on the AI-MO Prize visit:
   https://aimoprize.com/

   About XTX Markets:

   XTX Markets is a leading financial technology firm which partners with
   counterparties, exchanges and e-trading venues globally to provide
   liquidity in the Equity, FX, Fixed Income and Commodity markets. XTX
   has over 200 employees based in London, Paris, New York, Mumbai,
   Yerevan and Singapore. XTX is consistently a top 5 liquidity provider
   globally in FX (Euromoney 2018-present) and is also the largest
   European equities (systematic internaliser) liquidity provider
   (Rosenblatt FY: 2020-2023).

   The company's corporate philanthropy focuses on STEM education and
   maximum impact giving (alongside an employee matching programme). Since
   2017, XTX has donated over £100mn to charities and good causes,
   establishing it as a major donor in the UK and globally.

   In a changing world XTX Markets is at the forefront of making financial
   markets fairer and more efficient for all.

   Logo - https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/2285893/XTX_Markets_Logo.jpg
   (BUTTON) ×

Modal title

Also from this source

   XTX Markets launching $10 million 'Artificial Intelligence Mathematical
   Olympiad Prize'

XTX Markets launching $10 million 'Artificial Intelligence Mathematical
Olympiad Prize'

   XTX Markets is launching the Artificial Intelligence Mathematical
   Olympiad Prize ('AI-MO Prize'), a new $10mn challenge fund designed to
   spur the...
   More Releases From This Source

Explore

   Image1

   Computer &amp; Electronics
   Image1

   STEM (Science, Tech, Engineering, Math)
   Image1

   Artificial Intelligence
   Image1

   Banking &amp; Financial Services
   News Releases in Similar Topics

PRN Top Stories Newsletters

   Sign up to get PRN’s top stories and curated news delivered to your
   inbox weekly!
   ____________________ Enter Your Email
   [Select Country] Select Country
   (BUTTON) Submit

Thank you for subscribing!

   By signing up you agree to receive content from us.
   Our newsletters contain tracking pixels to help us deliver unique
   content based on each subscriber's engagement and interests. For more
   information on how we will use your data to ensure we send you relevant
   content please visit our PRN Consumer Newsletter Privacy Notice. You
   can withdraw your consent at any time in the footer of every email
   you'll receive. Mit Ihrer Anmeldung erklären Sie sich damit
   einverstanden, Inhalte von uns zu erhalten.
   Unsere Newsletter enthalten Zählpixel, die die Lieferung einzigartiger
   Inhalte in Bezug auf das Abonnement und die Interessen der einzelnen
   Abonnenten ermöglichen. Weitere Informationen über die Verwendung Ihrer
   Daten im Hinblick auf die Zusendung von relevanten Inhalten, finden Sie
   in unserer PRN Consumer Newsletter Privacy Notice. Ihre Zustimmung
   können Sie jederzeit in der Fußzeile jeder erhaltenen E-Mail
   widerrufen. En vous inscrivant à la newsletter, vous consentez à la
   réception de contenus de notre part.
   Notre newsletter contient des pixels espions nous permettant la
   fourniture à chaque abonné, d’un contenu unique en lien avec ses
   souscriptions et intérêts. Pour de plus amples informations sur
   l’utilisation faite de vos données en vue de l’envoi des contenus
   concernés, nous vous invitons à consulter la politique de
   confidentialité disponible à partir du lien suivant PRN Consumer
   Newsletter Privacy Notice. Vous pouvez à tout moment revenir sur votre
   consentement par le biais des informations situées au bas de chaque
   e-mail reçu. Регистрирайки се, Вие се съгласявате да получавате
   информационно съдържание от нас. Нашите бюлетини съдържат проследяващи
   пиксели, които ни помагат да предоставяме уникално съдържание въз
   основа на ангажираността и интересите на всеки абонат. За повече
   информация относно начина, по който ще използваме Вашите данни, за да
   гарантираме, че Ви изпращаме подходящо съдържание, моля, направете
   справка с нашето Уведомление за поверителност на потребителския бюлетин
   на PRN. Можете да оттеглите съгласието си по всяко време в долния
   колонтитул на всеки от имейлите, които ще получите.

Contact PR Newswire

     * Call 888-776-0942 from 8 AM - 9 PM ET
     * Chat with an Expert

   (BUTTON) Contact Us
     * General Inquiries
     * Request a Demo
     * Editorial Bureaus
     * Partnerships
     * Media Inquiries
     * Worldwide Offices

Products

     * For Marketers
     * For Public Relations
     * For IR &amp; Compliance
     * For Agency
     * For Small Business
     * All Products

About

     * About PR Newswire
     * About Cision
     * Become a Publishing Partner
     * Become a Channel Partner
     * Careers
     * Accessibility Statement

   (BUTTON) Global Sites
     * Asia
     * APAC
     * APAC - Traditional Chinese
     * Brazil
     * Canada
     * Czech
     * Denmark
     * Finland
     * France
     * Germany
     * India
     * Indonesia
     * Israel
     * Italy
     * Mexico
     * Middle East
     * Middle East - Arabic
     * Netherlands
     * Norway
     * Poland
     * Portugal
     * Russia
     * Slovakia
     * Spain
     * Sweden
     * United Kingdom

My Services

     * All New Releases
     * Online Member Center
     * ProfNet

Contact Cision

Products

About

   My Services
     * All News Releases
     * Online Member Center
     * ProfNet

   Cision Distribution Helpline
   888-776-0942

     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy Policy
     * Information Security Policy
     * Site Map
     * RSS
     * Cookie Settings

   Copyright © 2023 Cision US Inc.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-21">
<text>
   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=6035250&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;comscorekw=Artificial+intellig
   ence+%28AI%29%2CTechnology%2CComputing%2CUS+news%2CChatGPT%2CWorld+news
   %2COpenAI] Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          + View all News
          + World news
          + UK news
          + Climate crisis
          + Ukraine
          + Environment
          + Science
          + Global development
          + Football
          + Tech
          + Business
          + Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          + View all Opinion
          + The Guardian view
          + Columnists
          + Cartoons
          + Opinion videos
          + Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          + View all Sport
          + Football
          + Cricket
          + Rugby union
          + Tennis
          + Cycling
          + F1
          + Golf
          + US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          + View all Culture
          + Books
          + Music
          + TV &amp; radio
          + Art &amp; design
          + Film
          + Games
          + Classical
          + Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          + View all Lifestyle
          + Fashion
          + Food
          + Recipes
          + Love &amp; sex
          + Health &amp; fitness
          + Home &amp; garden
          + Women
          + Men
          + Family
          + Travel
          + Money
     * Search input
       ____________________
       google-search
       Search
       (BUTTON)

     * Support us
     * Print subscriptions

     [ ] Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us
     * The Guardian app
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Pictures
     * Newsletters
     * Today's paper
     * Inside the Guardian
     * The Observer
     * Guardian Weekly
     * Crosswords
     * Wordiply
     * Corrections


     * Facebook
     * Twitter


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us

     * The Guardian view
     * Columnists
     * Cartoons
     * Opinion videos
     * Letters

   US Office of Management and Budget (OMB) director, Shalanda Young, with
   Joe Biden at the White House, Washington DC, March 2022.
   [ ]
   Last month, Shalanda Young, director of the White House Office of
   Management and Budget, released a memo that could revolutionise the use
   of AI in government in the US.’ Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
   Last month, Shalanda Young, director of the White House Office of
   Management and Budget, released a memo that could revolutionise the use
   of AI in government in the US.’ Photograph: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
   OpinionArtificial intelligence (AI)

The US is racing ahead in its bid to control artificial intelligence – why is
the EU so far behind?

   Seth Lazar
   Seth Lazar

   Washington is laying down rules for the use of seemingly mundane AI
   that could, in fact, be incredibly dangerous
   Tue 28 Nov 2023 11.52 CETLast modified on Tue 28 Nov 2023 18.09 CET
     *
     *
     *

   Between fancy global summits, OpenAI’s boardroom drama and rumoured
   technical breakthroughs, the world has recently been paying close
   attention to the frontiers of AI research. But last month the White
   House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the US released a memo
   on the use of more mundane AI systems in government that is likely, in
   the near term at least, to be equally consequential.

   From its use tracking undocumented migrants, to the predictive
   algorithms police departments deploy to surveil populations and
   allocate resources, AI is now a common tool of the US government to cut
   costs – but at the expense of subjecting society’s most vulnerable to
   arbitrary rule without due process, and with predictably discriminatory
   outcomes. Researchers, journalists and activists have been calling
   attention to this for years. That call is at last being answered.

   The OMB is the largest unit in the US president’s executive office.
   Though little discussed, it is extremely powerful. It oversees other
   government agencies, ensuring their actions are aligned with the
   president’s programme. And last month, the OMB director, Shalanda
   Young, released a memo that could revolutionise the use of AI in
   government in the US.

   The proposed policy – it is still a draft, and could be watered down –
   would require each department to appoint a chief AI officer and have
   them provide a register of existing AI use cases. This alone is a
   significant win for transparency. But in addition, the officer must
   identify systems that will potentially impact people’s safety or
   rights, which are subject to further meaningful constraints.

   There are new requirements to weigh AI systems’ risks to rights and
   safety against their claimed benefits. Agencies will also have to
   verify the quality of the data they use, and to more closely monitor
   the systems once they have been deployed. Crucially, those affected by
   AI systems are to receive plain language explanations of how AI is
   being used, and the opportunity to contest AI decisions.
   Members of the European parliament take part in a voting session as
   they consider the EU’s Artificial Intelligence Act, Strasbourg, France,
   14 June 2023.
   Members of the European parliament take part in a voting session as
   they consider the EU’s Artificial Intelligence Act, Strasbourg, France,
   14 June 2023. Photograph: Frederick Florin/AFP/Getty Images

   These might all seem like obvious steps, but they are not currently
   being taken, and the result is more harm to the most vulnerable in
   society.

   The policy would also compel departments to actively ensure that AI
   systems will advance equity, dignity and fairness in how they are
   deployed, calling attention to the inherent unjust biases in models and
   the unrepresentative data on which models are often trained. Government
   departments must also consult affected groups before deploying such
   systems, and provide options for human consideration and remedy,
   allowing people to contest decisions that adversely affect them,
   instead of being subject to Kafkaesque “algorithmic blind spots”.

   Impressively, the memo even addresses the deeply unsexy but important
   question of government procurement of AI. So many societal problems
   with AI start with inexperienced government agencies adopting new
   software that they don’t adequately understand, which is oversold by
   its vendor, and which ultimately fails in ways that affect the worst
   off most severely. Describing and requiring best practices for
   procurement of AI systems is one of the most significant things
   government departments can do right now.
   The stupidity of AI
   Read more

   The OMB memo is a case study in research and civil society-led
   policymaking. Current attempts to regulate frontier AI models (which
   can perform a wide range of tasks, including language and image
   processing), especially in the EU, could learn something here. In early
   2023, surprised by the popularity of ChatGPT, the EU parliament
   attempted to bolt on regulations for frontier AI systems to its
   (already flawed) AI Act. In the trilogue negotiations now taking place
   – where the parliament, the European Commission and the European
   Council try to reconcile their different proposals for the act – France
   and Germany recently pushed back, as they realised the possible
   implications of these proposals for their fast-rising domestic AI
   companies (Mistral and Aleph Alpha respectively).

   This disarray was predictable. GPT-4, the most capable frontier AI
   model, had barely been released when the first regulatory proposals
   were brought forward. Regulating a field that is seeing frequent
   research breakthroughs is hard. The ecosystem for deploying these
   systems is also fast-changing; will AI companies operate like
   platforms, tending to monopoly or duopoly power? Or will there be a
   robust competitive market for frontier AI models? We don’t yet know.
   There hasn’t been time for public interest research to offer balanced
   policy proposals, or for a well-grounded and robust civil society
   debate to take place.

   Some ideas for regulating frontier systems are no-brainers – the EU and
   others should clearly require far more transparency from the leading AI
   labs, especially with respect to any dangerous capabilities revealed by
   the next generation of AI systems. But beyond this, the wisest course
   may be not to rush things, and to foster the kind of civil society
   debate and in-depth research that grounds more mature policy, such as
   the OMB memo.
     * Seth Lazar is a professor of philosophy at the Australian National
       University and a distinguished research fellow at the Oxford
       Institute for Ethics in AI

   Explore more on these topics
     * Artificial intelligence (AI)
     * Opinion
     * Computing
     * ChatGPT
     * OpenAI
     * comment

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Reuse this content

comments (…)

   Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * The Guardian view
     * Columnists
     * Cartoons
     * Opinion videos
     * Letters

     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us

     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters

     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs

   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-22">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate

   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help

     * Your account

     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * More menu

   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds

   Close menu
   BBC News

   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science

   More
     * Entertainment &amp; Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat

     * World
     * Africa
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Europe
     * Latin America
     * Middle East
     * US &amp; Canada

Sports Illustrated accused of publishing AI-written articles

     * Published
       1 day ago

   (BUTTON) Share
   (BUTTON) close panel
   Share page
   (BUTTON) Copy link
   About sharing
   Fake author biography Image source, Sports Illustrated/Internet Archive
   Image caption,
   One of the author biographies on the Sports Illustrated website that
   was allegedly created by artificial intelligence. The photo was found
   for sale on a website that sells AI-generated headshots.
   By Chloe Kim
   BBC News

   Sports Illustrated deleted web articles after a report claimed they
   were generated by artificial intelligence and published under fake
   author names.

   Tech publisher Futurism reported the issue after finding author
   headshots on an AI-generated image website.

   The Sports Illustrated Union said staff were "horrified" and demanded
   "basic journalistic standards".

   The publisher's owner disputed the report's accuracy, but it said it
   had launched an internal investigation.

   Arena Group, which owns the Sports Illustrated magazine and website,
   licensed the content from a third-party company, Advon Commerce, a
   company spokesperson said in a statement.

   Sports Illustrated has since removed the content after the allegations
   were raised, the statement added. Arena Group is now pursuing an
   internal investigation and has ended its partnership with Advon
   Commerce.

   Advon Commerce, an e-commerce company that works with retailers and
   publishers, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

   The Sports Illustrated Union said "these practices violate everything
   we believe in about journalism".

   "We demand the company commit to adhering to basic journalistic
   standards, including not publishing computer-written stories by fake
   people," the union said on X.

   Arena Group claimed that Advon Commerce had assured them "that all of
   the articles in question were written and edited by humans" and that
   the e-commerce firm regularly uses "counter-plagiarism and counter-AI
   software".

   The company alleged that AdVon Commerce had allowed its writers to use
   pseudonyms "in certain articles" to protect their privacy, however.
   That was why the AI-generated pictures were used and the author names
   cannot be found elsewhere on the internet.

   This incident at Sports Illustrated comes as concern grows in the media
   world that generative artificial intelligence could cheaply replace
   journalists and potentially spread misinformation. Various newsrooms
   have experimented with AI or released guidelines for employees and
   audiences to explain their approach towards it.

   Some newsrooms have made headlines, however, after publishing AI
   articles that included errors or falsehoods. Others gained attention
   for not marking stories as AI generated.

   Numerous Sports Illustrated staff said on social media that they were
   appalled by the findings in Futurist's report, particularly as Arena
   Group has made large cuts to staff in recent years.

   Mitch Goldich, an editor at Sports Illustrated who leads the union,
   said the magazine had done "real damage to the credibility of the
   hardworking humans I have been honored to work with for the past 9
   years".

   He changed his name on X to "Mitch Goldich (human)" to further
   emphasise the point.

Related Topics

     * Artificial intelligence
     * United States

More on this story

     * What is AI and how does it work?
          + Published
            1 November
       A woman's hands holding a mobile phone

Top Stories

     * Live.
       Three killed in Jerusalem shooting hours after Gaza ceasefire
       renewed
     * Ex-US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger dies aged 100
          + Published
            54 minutes ago
     * Henry Kissinger’s life and legacy in his own words. VideoHenry
       Kissinger’s life and legacy in his own words
          + Published
            8 hours ago

Features

     * Kissinger: Divisive diplomat who shaped world affairs
       Henry Kissinger
     * Is Greta right? Is COP just ‘blah blah blah’?
       Greta Thunberg
     * UN fears for displaced Gazans as winter approaches
       A woman holds her baby
     *
     * Russian court bans 'LGBT movement'
       Russia's LGBT community has come under increasing pressure from the
       authorities for years
     * Why is the COP28 climate summit in Dubai important?
       Participants attend a presentation at the Moana Blue Pacific
       pavilion of Pacific islands prior to the opening ceremony of the
       UNFCCC COP28 Climate Conference at Expo City Dubai on November 30,
       2023 in Dubai, United Arab Emirates
     * A showdown between alternative visions of America
       Ron DeSantis and Gavin Newsom
     * North Korea says it's got eyes on the White House - so what?
       Kim smiles and laughs with subordinates during a meeting with
       satellite launch committee members. He is sitting at a desk behind
       a big globe of the world
     * How 'rat-hole' miners freed Indian tunnel workers
       Rat miners" stand before they begin manual drilling as rescue
       operations are in progress after workers got trapped in a collapse
       of an under-construction tunnel, in Uttarkashi in the northern
       state of Uttarakhand, India, November 27, 2023.
     * Why do countries change their name?
       An archway in Czechia

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Why US travellers are snubbing budget airlines
       Southwest Airplane
     * Berlin's stunning indoor public pools
       Pool
     * The scandalous queens of 1910s New York
       Woman

Most Read

    1. 1
       Pogues singer Shane MacGowan dies aged 65
    2. 2
       Elon Musk launches profane attack on X advertisers
    3. 3
       Former Chancellor Alistair Darling dies aged 70
    4. 4
       Russian court bans 'LGBT movement'
    5. 5
       Ex-US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger dies aged 100
    6. 6
       Cristiano Ronaldo faces $1bn crypto ad lawsuit
    7. 7
       Kissinger: Divisive diplomat who shaped world affairs
    8. 8
       North Korea says it's got eyes on the White House - so what?
    9. 9
       Key Dutch party sees 'no basis' for talks with Wilders
   10. 10
       Footballers facing abuse claims are still playing

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News

     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds

     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
   sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-23">
<text>
   [p?c1=2&amp;;c2=3005041&amp;cv=3.6.0&amp;cj=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KT7RHVG

   (BUTTON) Menu
   AP Logo
   (BUTTON) Menu
     * World
     * U.S.
     * Politics
     * Sports
     * Entertainment
     * Business
     * Science
     * Fact Check
     * Oddities
     * Health
     * Video
     * Climate
     * Spotlight
     * Photography
     * Tech
     * Lifestyle
     * Religion
     * Press Releases
     * ...
       (BUTTON)
          + World
            (BUTTON)
               o Israel-Hamas War
               o Russia-Ukraine War
               o Latin America
               o Europe
               o Africa
               o Middle East
               o Asia Pacific
               o U.S. News
               o Australia
               o China
          + U.S.
          + Politics
            (BUTTON)
               o Joe Biden
               o Election 2024
               o Congress
          + Sports
            (BUTTON)
               o AP Top 25 College Football Poll
               o NFL
               o MLB
               o NHL
               o NBA
               o WNBA
               o Soccer
               o Tennis
               o Golf
          + Entertainment
            (BUTTON)
               o Movie reviews
               o Book reviews
               o Celebrity
               o Television
               o Music
          + Business
            (BUTTON)
               o Inflation
               o Financial Markets
               o Business Highlights
               o Financial wellness
          + Science
          + Fact Check
          + Oddities
          + Health
          + Video
          + Climate
          + Spotlight
          + Photography
          + Tech
            (BUTTON)
               o Artificial Intelligence
               o Social Media
          + Lifestyle
          + Religion
          + Press Releases

   ____________________ Search Query (BUTTON) Submit Search
   (BUTTON) Show Search
     * World
       (BUTTON)
          + Israel-Hamas War
          + Russia-Ukraine War
          + Latin America
          + Europe
          + Africa
          + Middle East
          + Asia Pacific
          + U.S. News
          + Australia
          + China
     * U.S.
     * Politics
       (BUTTON)
          + Joe Biden
          + Election 2024
          + Congress
     * Sports
       (BUTTON)
          + AP Top 25 College Football Poll
          + NFL
          + MLB
          + NHL
          + NBA
          + WNBA
          + Soccer
          + Tennis
          + Golf
     * Entertainment
       (BUTTON)
          + Movie reviews
          + Book reviews
          + Celebrity
          + Television
          + Music
     * Business
       (BUTTON)
          + Inflation
          + Financial Markets
          + Business Highlights
          + Financial wellness
     * Science
     * Fact Check
     * Oddities
     * Health
     * Video
     * Climate
     * Spotlight
     * Photography
     * Tech
       (BUTTON)
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Social Media
     * Lifestyle
     * Religion
     * Press Releases
     *
     * [?url=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.apnews.com%2Fc3%2F4c%2F65482a7b452db6604
       3542c093eaf%2Fpromo-2x.png]
       The Associated Press is an independent global news organization
       dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains
       the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all
       formats and the essential provider of the technology and services
       vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population
       sees AP journalism every day.
     *
     *
          + twitter
          + instagram
          + facebook
     *
     * The Associated Press
          + ap.org
          + Contact Us
          + Careers
          + Advertise with us
          + Accessibility Statement
          + (BUTTON) Cookie Settings
          + Terms of Use
          + Privacy Policy
     *
     * More From AP News
       (BUTTON)
          + About
          + AP News Values and Principles
          + AP’s Role in Elections
          + AP Leads
          + AP Definitive Source Blog
          + AP Images Spotlight Blog
          + AP Stylebook
     *
     * Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.

   Henry Kissinger dead at 100
   Israel-Hamas war
   Elon Musk
   Rockefeller Center tree lighting
   Aaron Rodgers

   Technology

Fake babies, real horror: Deepfakes from the Gaza war increase fears about
AI’s power to mislead

   A truce between Israel and Hamas entered its fifth day on Tuesday, with
   the militant group promising to release more civilian hostages to delay
   the expected resumption of the war. (Nov. 28)
   (BUTTON) Photos
   2
   (BUTTON)
   A Palestinian man collects his belongings southeast of the Gaza City on
   Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2023. on the fifth day of the temporary ceasefire
   between Hamas and Israel. (AP Photo/Adel Hana) (BUTTON)
   1 of 2 |

   A Palestinian man collects his belongings southeast of the Gaza City on
   Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2023. on the fifth day of the temporary ceasefire
   between Hamas and Israel. (AP Photo/Adel Hana)
   (BUTTON) Read More
   (BUTTON)
   1 of 2

   A Palestinian man collects his belongings southeast of the Gaza City on
   Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2023. on the fifth day of the temporary ceasefire
   between Hamas and Israel. (AP Photo/Adel Hana)
   (BUTTON) Share
   Share
     * Copy
       Link copied
     * Email
     * Facebook
     * X
     * Reddit
     * LinkedIn
     * Pinterest
     * Flipboard
     * Print

   (BUTTON) Read More
   Smoke rises following an Israeli bombardment in the Gaza Strip, as seen
   from southern Israel, Thursday, Nov. 23, 2023. (AP Photo/Leo Correa)
   (BUTTON)
   2 of 2 |

   Smoke rises following an Israeli bombardment in the Gaza Strip, as seen
   from southern Israel, Thursday, Nov. 23, 2023. (AP Photo/Leo Correa)
   (BUTTON) Read More
   (BUTTON)
   2 of 2

   Smoke rises following an Israeli bombardment in the Gaza Strip, as seen
   from southern Israel, Thursday, Nov. 23, 2023. (AP Photo/Leo Correa)
   (BUTTON) Share
   Share
     * Copy
       Link copied
     * Email
     * Facebook
     * X
     * Reddit
     * LinkedIn
     * Pinterest
     * Flipboard
     * Print

   (BUTTON) Read More
   By DAVID KLEPPER
   Updated [hour]:[minute] [AMPM] [timezone], [monthFull] [day], [year]
   (BUTTON) Share
   Share
     * Copy
       Link copied
     * Email
     * Facebook
     * X
     * Reddit
     * LinkedIn
     * Pinterest
     * Flipboard
     * Print

   WASHINGTON (AP) — Among images of the bombed out homes and ravaged
   streets of Gaza, some stood out for the utter horror: Bloodied,
   abandoned infants.

   Viewed millions of times online since the war began, these images are
   deepfakes created using artificial intelligence. If you look closely
   you can see clues: fingers that curl oddly, or eyes that shimmer with
   an unnatural light — all telltale signs of digital deception.

   The outrage the images were created to provoke, however, is all too
   real.

   Pictures from the Israel-Hamas war have vividly and painfully
   illustrated AI’s potential as a propaganda tool, used to create
   lifelike images of carnage. Since the war began last month, digitally
   altered ones spread on social media have been used to make false claims
   about responsibility for casualties or to deceive people about
   atrocities that never happened.
   Israel-Hamas war
   FILE - Ofri Bibas Levy, sister of Yarden Bibas, held hostage in Gaza
   with his wife, Shiri and two kids, Kfir and Ariel, talks to the media,
   during a press conference at the European headquarters of the United
   Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, on Nov. 14, 2023. Kfir Bibas has spent
   nearly a fifth of his life in Hamas captivity. The 10-month-old was
   abducted from his home in a southern Israeli kibbutz on Oct. 7, when
   Palestinian militants snatched about 240 people and dragged them to
   Gaza. (Salvatore Di Nolfi/Keystone via AP, File)
   The family of an infant hostage pleads for his release before the
   Israel-Hamas truce winds down
   Ahmed Salaima, 14, center, a Palestinian prisoner released by Israel,
   is hugged by his father as he arrives home in the east Jerusalem
   neighborhood of Ras al-Amud Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2023. (AP Photo/Mahmoud
   Illean)
   Diplomats are seeking to extend the Gaza truce deal as deadline looms
   Ruth Munder, a released Israeli hostage, walks with an Israeli soldier
   shortly after her arrival in Israel on Friday, Nov. 24, 2023. A
   four-day cease-fire in the Israel-Hamas war began in Gaza on Friday
   with an exchange of hostages and prisoners. (IDF via AP)
   Freed Israeli hostage describes deteriorating conditions while being
   held by Hamas

   While most of the false claims circulating online about the war didn’t
   require AI to create and came from more conventional sources,
   technological advances are coming with increasing frequency and little
   oversight. That’s made the potential of AI to become another form of
   weapon starkly apparent, and offered a glimpse of what’s to come during
   future conflicts, elections and other big events.

   “It’s going to get worse — a lot worse — before it gets better,” said
   Jean-Claude Goldenstein, CEO of CREOpoint, a tech company based in San
   Francisco and Paris that uses AI to assess the validity of online
   claims. The company has created a database of the most viral deepfakes
   to emerge from Gaza. “Pictures, video and audio: with generative AI
   it’s going to be an escalation you haven’t seen.”

   In some cases, photos from other conflicts or disasters have been
   repurposed and passed off as new. In others, generative AI programs
   have been used to create images from scratch, such as one of a baby
   crying amidst bombing wreckage that went viral in the conflict’s
   earliest days.

   Other examples of AI-generated images include videos showing supposed
   Israeli missile strikes, or tanks rolling through ruined neighborhoods,
   or families combing through rubble for survivors.

   In many cases, the fakes seem designed to evoke a strong emotional
   reaction by including the bodies of babies, children or families. In
   the bloody first days of the war, supporters of both Israel and Hamas
   alleged the other side had victimized children and babies; deepfake
   images of wailing infants offered photographic ‘evidence’ that was
   quickly held up as proof.

   The propagandists who create such images are skilled at targeting
   people’s deepest impulses and anxieties, said Imran Ahmed, CEO of the
   Center for Countering Digital Hate, a nonprofit that has tracked
   disinformation from the war. Whether it’s a deepfake baby, or an actual
   image of an infant from another conflict, the emotional impact on the
   viewer is the same.

   The more abhorrent the image, the more likely a user is to remember it
   and to share it, unwittingly spreading the disinformation further.

   “People are being told right now: Look at this picture of a baby,”
   Ahmed said. “The disinformation is designed to make you engage with
   it.”

   Similarly deceptive AI-generated content began to spread after Russia
   invaded Ukraine in 2022. One altered video appeared to show Ukrainian
   President Volodymyr Zelenskyy ordering Ukrainians to surrender. Such
   claims have continued to circulate as recently as last week, showing
   just how persistent even easily debunked misinformation can be.

   Each new conflict, or election season, provides new opportunities for
   disinformation peddlers to demonstrate the latest AI advances. That has
   many AI experts and political scientists warning of the risks next
   year, when several countries hold major elections, including the U.S.,
   India, Pakistan, Ukraine, Taiwan, Indonesia and Mexico.

   The risk that AI and social media could be used to spread lies to U.S.
   voters has alarmed lawmakers from both parties in Washington. At a
   recent hearing on the dangers of deepfake technology, U.S. Rep. Gerry
   Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, said the U.S. must invest in funding
   the development of AI tools designed to counter other AI.

   “We as a nation need to get this right,” Connolly said.

   Around the world a number of startup tech firms are working on new
   programs that can sniff out deepfakes, affix watermarks to images to
   prove their origin, or scan text to verify any specious claims that may
   have been inserted by AI.

   “The next wave of AI will be: How can we verify the content that is out
   there. How can you detect misinformation, how can you analyze text to
   determine if it is trustworthy?” said Maria Amelie, co-founder of
   Factiverse, a Norwegian company that has created an AI program that can
   scan content for inaccuracies or bias introduced by other AI programs.

   Such programs would be of immediate interest to educators, journalists,
   financial analysts and others interested in rooting out falsehoods,
   plagiarism or fraud. Similar programs are being designed to sniff out
   doctored photos or video.

   While this technology shows promise, those using AI to lie are often a
   step ahead, according to David Doermann, a computer scientist who led
   an effort at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency to respond
   to the national security threats posed by AI-manipulated images.

   Doermann, who is now a professor at the University at Buffalo, said
   effectively responding to the political and social challenges posed by
   AI disinformation will require both better technology and better
   regulations, voluntary industry standards and extensive investments in
   digital literacy programs to help internet users figure out ways to
   tell truth from fantasy.

   “Every time we release a tool that detects this, our adversaries can
   use AI to cover up that trace evidence,” said Doermann. “Detection and
   trying to pull this stuff down is no longer the solution. We need to
   have a much bigger solution.”

   [?url=https%3A%2F%2Fassets.apnews.com%2Ffc%2F24%2F7ff11448446fb8500bc98
   4551325%2Faplogo-with-tagline.png]
   The Associated Press is an independent global news organization
   dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the
   most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and
   the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news
   business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism
   every day.
     * The Associated Press
          + ap.org
          + Contact Us
          + Careers
          + Advertise with us
          + Accessibility Statement
          + (BUTTON) Cookie Settings
          + Terms of Use
          + Privacy Policy
     * More From AP News
          + About
          + AP News Values and Principles
          + AP’s Role in Elections
          + AP Leads
          + AP Definitive Source Blog
          + AP Images Spotlight Blog
          + AP Stylebook

   Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
     * twitter
     * instagram
     * facebook

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PDF5H9V
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-24">
<text>
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WX8PHK9

   Menu Fermer
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
     * Page d'accueil
     * Culture
     * Économie + Entreprise
     * Éducation
     * Environnement
     * International
     * Politique + Société
     * Santé
     * Science
     * Podcasts
     * En anglais

Édition

   [France____________]

   The Conversation
     *
     * Édition:

   Éditions disponibles
   France
     * Africa
     * Australia
     * Brasil
     * Canada
     * Canada (français)
     * España
     * Europe
     * Global
     * Indonesia
     * New Zealand
     * United Kingdom
     * United States

     * Faire un don
     * Recevoir nos newsletters

     * Devenir un auteur
     * S’abonner comme lecteur
     * Connexion

   The Conversation

   Recherchez

   ____________________
   (Recherche)

   L’expertise universitaire, l’exigence journalistique
    1. Culture
    2. Économie + Entreprise
    3. Éducation
    4. Environnement
    5. International
    6. Politique + Société
    7. Santé
    8. Science
    9. Podcasts
   10. En anglais

   A woman looks at a distorted mirror image of herself.
   According to the publisher’s editor-at-large, 2023 represented ‘a kind
   of crisis of authenticity.’ lambada/E+ via Getty Images

Merriam-Webster’s word of the year – authentic – reflects growing concerns
over AI’s ability to deceive and dehumanize

   Publié: 28 novembre 2023, 14:41 CET
   Roger J. Kreuz, University of Memphis

auteur

    1. Roger J. Kreuz
       Associate Dean and Professor of Psychology, University of Memphis

Déclaration d’intérêts

   Roger J. Kreuz ne travaille pas, ne conseille pas, ne possède pas de
   parts, ne reçoit pas de fonds d'une organisation qui pourrait tirer
   profit de cet article, et n'a déclaré aucune autre affiliation que son
   organisme de recherche.

Partenaires

   University of Memphis

   University of Memphis apporte un financement en tant que membre
   adhérent de The Conversation US.

   Voir les partenaires de The Conversation France
   Adresse électronique
   Twitter
   Facebook
   Linkedin
   WhatsApp
   Messenger

   When Merriam-Webster announced that its word of the year for 2023 was
   “authentic,” it did so with over a month to go in the calendar year.

   Even then, the dictionary publisher was late to the game.

   In a lexicographic form of Christmas creep, Collins English Dictionary
   announced its 2023 word of the year, “AI,” on Oct. 31. Cambridge
   University Press followed suit on Nov. 15 with “hallucinate,” a word
   used to refer to incorrect or misleading information provided by
   generative AI programs.

   At any rate, terms related to artificial intelligence appear to rule
   the roost, with “authentic” also falling under that umbrella.

AI and the authenticity crisis

   For the past 20 years, Merriam-Webster, the oldest dictionary publisher
   in the U.S., has chosen a word of the year – a term that encapsulates,
   in one form or another, the zeitgeist of that past year. In 2020, the
   word was “pandemic.” The next year’s winner? “Vaccine.”

   “Authentic” is, at first glance, a little less obvious.

   According to the publisher’s editor-at-large, Peter Sokolowski, 2023
   represented “a kind of crisis of authenticity.” He added that the
   choice was also informed by the number of online users who looked up
   the word’s meaning throughout the year.
   Print ad with a drawing of a thick book accompanied by the text, 'The
   One Great Standard Authority.'
   A 1906 print ad for Webster’s International Dictionary advertised
   itself an an authoritative clearinghouse for all things English – an
   authentic, reliable source. Jay Paull/Getty Images

   The word “authentic,” in the sense of something that is accurate or
   authoritative, has its roots in French and Latin. The Oxford English
   Dictionary has identified its usage in English as early as the late
   14th century.

   And yet the concept – particularly as it applies to human creations and
   human behavior – is slippery.

   Is a photograph made from film more authentic than one made from a
   digital camera? Does an authentic scotch have to be made at a
   small-batch distillery in Scotland? When socializing, are you being
   authentic – or just plain rude – when you skirt niceties and small
   talk? Does being your authentic self mean pursuing something that feels
   natural, even at the expense of cultural or legal constraints?

   The more you think about it, the more it seems like an ever-elusive
   ideal – one further complicated by advances in artificial intelligence.

How much human touch?

   Intelligence of the artificial variety – as in nonhuman, inauthentic,
   computer-generated intelligence – was the technology story of the past
   year.

   At the end of 2022, OpenAI publicly released ChatGPT 3.5, a chatbot
   derived from so-called large language models. It was widely seen as a
   breakthrough in artificial intelligence, but its rapid adoption led to
   questions about the accuracy of its answers.

   The chatbot also became popular among students, which compelled
   teachers to grapple with how to ensure their assignments weren’t being
   completed by ChatGPT.

   Issues of authenticity have arisen in other areas as well. In November
   2023, a track described as the “last Beatles song” was released. “Now
   and Then” is a compilation of music originally written and performed by
   John Lennon in the 1970s, with additional music recorded by the other
   band members in the 1990s. A machine learning algorithm was recently
   employed to separate Lennon’s vocals from his piano accompaniment, and
   this allowed a final version to be released.

   But is it an authentic “Beatles” song? Not everyone is convinced.

   Advances in technology have also allowed the manipulation of audio and
   video recordings. Referred to as “deepfakes,” such transformations can
   make it appear that a celebrity or a politician said something that
   they did not – a troubling prospect as the U.S. heads into what is sure
   to be a contentious 2024 election season.

   Writing for The Conversation in May 2023, education scholar Victor R.
   Lee explored the AI-fueled authenticity crisis.

   Our judgments of authenticity are knee-jerk, he explained, honed over
   years of experience. Sure, occasionally we’re fooled, but our antennae
   are generally reliable. Generative AI short-circuits this cognitive
   framework.

   “That’s because back when it took a lot of time to produce original new
   content, there was a general assumption … that it only could have been
   made by skilled individuals putting in a lot of effort and acting with
   the best of intentions,” he wrote.

   “These are not safe assumptions anymore,” he added. “If it looks like a
   duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, everyone will need to
   consider that it may not have actually hatched from an egg.”

   Though there seems to be a general understanding that human minds and
   human hands must play some role in creating something authentic or
   being authentic, authenticity has always been a difficult concept to
   define.

   So it’s somewhat fitting that as our collective handle on reality has
   become ever more tenuous, an elusive word for an abstract ideal is
   Merriam-Webster’s word of the year.
     * Artificial intelligence (AI)
     * Linguistics
     * Word of the Year
     * The Beatles
     * Words
     * OpenAI
     * Dictionaries
     * Authenticity
     * ChatGPT

Notre audience

   Le réseau global The Conversation a une audience mensuelle de 18
   millions de lecteurs et une audience globale de 42 millions à travers
   les republications sous la licence Creative Commons.

Vous voulez écrire ?

   Écrivez un article et rejoignez une communauté de plus de 174 600
   universitaires et chercheurs de 4 807 institutions.

   Enregistrez-vous maintenant
     * Ce que nous sommes
     * Notre équipe
     * Nos valeurs
     * Charte éditoriale
     * Règles de republication
     * Recevoir nos newsletters
     * Nos flux

     * Faire un don
     * Nos institutions membres
     * Kit de communication pour les institution membres
     * Événements
     * Transparence financière
     * Contactez-nous

     * ​
     * ​
     * ​
     * ​

   Politique de confidentialité Préférences de consentement Mentions
   légales

   Droits d'auteur © 2010–2023, The Conversation France (assoc. 1901)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-25">
<text>
   #Medium alternate

   ____________________

   (BUTTON)

   Member-only story

Tesla’s Integration of Artificial Intelligence in Vehicles: A Revolution on
Wheels

A Paradigm Shift in Automotive Technology

   Artin Sinani

   Artin Sinani
   ·

   Follow
   4 min read
   ·
   1 day ago

   --
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   Share

   Tesla, the trailblazing electric vehicle (EV) manufacturer, stands at
   the forefront of revolutionizing the automotive industry with its
   pioneering integration of artificial intelligence (AI) in vehicles.
   Beyond crafting sleek designs and eco-friendly EVs, Tesla’s adoption of
   AI technology has propelled its cars to remarkable heights in terms of
   safety, autonomy, and futuristic functionalities.

Foundational Elements of Tesla’s AI Integration

   Tesla’s journey into AI-driven vehicles is founded on a robust
   technological infrastructure, amalgamating state-of-the-art hardware
   and software components. At the heart of this infrastructure lies
   Tesla’s Autopilot, an advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS) that
   seamlessly combines computer vision, machine learning, and neural
   networks to impart vehicles with a spectrum of capabilities, ranging
   from semi-autonomous driving to predictive maintenance systems.

   Computer Vision and Neural Networks: A Glimpse Into Tesla’s Sensorial
   Perception

   Tesla vehicles are equipped with an array of cameras, radars, and
   ultrasonic sensors that create a sensory network around the vehicle.
   These sensors act as the eyes and ears, capturing real-time data of the
   vehicle’s surroundings in high definition. The captured data is fed
   into Tesla’s neural networks — complex AI models inspired by the human
   brain. These neural networks process the information to discern and
   interpret the environment, identifying objects, pedestrians, lane
   markings, traffic signals, and other critical elements necessary for
   safe navigation.

   The neural networks, evolving through continuous machine learning,
   meticulously analyze the input data, recognizing patterns and making
   real-time decisions. For instance, Tesla’s AI models learn to
   differentiate between various objects on the road, distinguishing
   between vehicles, cyclists, pedestrians, and static elements like signs
   or obstacles. This granular level of understanding empowers Tesla
   vehicles to navigate complex scenarios with heightened precision and
   safety.

   --

   --
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Artin Sinani
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

Written by Artin Sinani

   21 Followers
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

More from Artin Sinani

   My Weight Loss Journey: How Weight Training Helped Me Lose 30 lbs
   Artin Sinani

   Artin Sinani

My Weight Loss Journey: How Weight Training Helped Me Lose 30 lbs

As many of us know sitting at a desk for work can make us tired, fatter and
for long hours can be detrimental to ones health. I’ve even…

   (BUTTON)
   ·3 min read·5 days ago

   --

   Stonks: Call Options VS Put Options
   Artin Sinani

   Artin Sinani

Stonks: Call Options VS Put Options

Let’s grab a beverage of your choice and discuss how derivatives in financial
markets work. The most fundamental derivatives are call…

   (BUTTON)
   ·5 min read·5 days ago

   --

   1

   Mastering Weight Loss in 2024: The Top 10 Strategies for Success
   Artin Sinani

   Artin Sinani

Mastering Weight Loss in 2024: The Top 10 Strategies for Success

I’ve always constantly been trying to find out how to build the best systems
in place in order to succeed in creating a weight loss regime…

   (BUTTON)
   ·3 min read·5 days ago

   --

   Understanding Generative AI: The New Hype In Tech
   Artin Sinani

   Artin Sinani

Understanding Generative AI: The New Hype In Tech

After completing my college courses several years ago in software development
and delving deeper into many subsets of Artificial…

   (BUTTON)
   ·4 min read·5 days ago

   --
   See all from Artin Sinani

Recommended from Medium

   Turning ChatGPT into Your Personal Assistant: Harnessing AI for
   Everyday Efficiency
   Michael Wilson

   Michael Wilson

   in

   Entrepreneur Power Network

Turning ChatGPT into Your Personal Assistant: Harnessing AI for Everyday
Efficiency

Photo by Mojahid Mottakin on Unsplash

   2 min read·4 days ago

   --

   2

   This is Why Old Men Prefer Young Girls
   Desiree Peralta

   Desiree Peralta

   in

   Publishous

This is Why Old Men Prefer Young Girls

Spoiler alert: it’s because they are big losers.

   (BUTTON)
   ·7 min read·Nov 20

   --

   296

Lists

   A phone with a tweet on it describing a deepfake video of the Ukrainian
   president, with a labeled fake image in the background

AI Regulation

   6 stories·205 saves
   This One Prompt Will 10X Your Chat GPT Results

ChatGPT prompts

   30 stories·729 saves

Generative AI Recommended Reading

   52 stories·458 saves

ChatGPT

   22 stories·285 saves

   OpenAI and the Biggest Threat in the History of Humanity
   Tomas Pueyo

   Tomas Pueyo

OpenAI and the Biggest Threat in the History of Humanity

We don’t know how to contain or align a FOOMing AGI

   (BUTTON)
   ·18 min read·6 days ago

   --

   46

   I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle
   Paul Rose

   Paul Rose

I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle

And it’s perfect for beginners

   6 min read·Oct 18

   --

   206

   Working in Japan Makes You Realize Why Japan Doesn’t Need English
   Alvin T.

   Alvin T.

   in

   Japonica Publication

Working in Japan Makes You Realize Why Japan Doesn’t Need English

I was one of the ignorant until real-life working experience in Japan changed
my mind.

   (BUTTON)
   ·7 min read·Nov 21

   --

   54

   NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!
   The Pareto Investor

   The Pareto Investor

NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!

Houston, We Have a Problem!

   (BUTTON)
   ·3 min read·Nov 9

   --

   144
   See more recommendations

   Help

   Status

   About

   Careers

   Blog

   Privacy

   Terms

   Text to speech

   Teams
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-26">
<text>
   [tr?id=906535086809084&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5L5TP48

     * Home
     * Specialties [nav-right-arrow.png]
        [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] Specialties

Browse
          + [article-icon.png] Articles
          + [poster-icon.png] Posters
          + [abstract-icon.png] Abstracts
          + [collections-blue.png] Cureus Collections
         Specialties
          + [allergy_immunology.png] Allergy / Immunology
          + [anatomy.png] Anatomy
          + [anesthesiology.png] Anesthesiology
          + [cardiac_thoracic_vascular_surgery.png] Cardiac / Thoracic /
            Vascular Surgery
          + [cardiology.png] Cardiology
          + [dentistry.png] Dentistry
          + [dermatology.png] Dermatology
          + [emergency_medicine.png] Emergency Medicine
          + [endocrinology_diabetes_metabolism.png] Endocrinology /
            Diabetes / Metabolism
          + [environmental_health.png] Environmental Health
          + [epidemiology_public_health.png] Epidemiology / Public Health
          + [family_general_practice.png] Family / General Practice
          + [forensic_medicine.png] Forensic Medicine
          + [gastroenterology.png] Gastroenterology
          + [general_surgery.png] General Surgery
          + [genetics.png] Genetics
          + [geriatrics.png] Geriatrics
          + [healthcare_technology.png] Healthcare Technology
          + [health_policy.png] Health Policy
          + [hematology.png] Hematology
          + [hiv_aids.png] HIV / AIDS
          + [infectious_disease.png] Infectious Disease
          + [integrative_complementary_medicine.png] Integrative /
            Complementary Medicine
          + [internal_medicine.png] Internal Medicine
          + [medical_education.png] Medical Education
          + [medical_physics.png] Medical Physics
          + [medical_simulation.png] Medical Simulation
          + [nephrology.png] Nephrology
          + [neurology.png] Neurology
          + [neurosurgery.png] Neurosurgery
          + [nuclear_medicine.png] Nuclear Medicine
          + [nutrition.png] Nutrition
          + [obstetrics_gynecology.png] Obstetrics / Gynecology
          + [occupational_health.png] Occupational Health
          + [oncology.png] Oncology
          + [ophthalmology.png] Ophthalmology
          + [oral_medicine.png] Oral Medicine
          + [orthopedics.png] Orthopedics
          + [osteopathic_medicine.png] Osteopathic Medicine
          + [otolaryngology.png] Otolaryngology
          + [pain_management.png] Pain Management
          + [palliative_care.png] Palliative Care
          + [pathology.png] Pathology
          + [pediatrics.png] Pediatrics
          + [pediatric_surgery.png] Pediatric Surgery
          + [physical_medicine_rehabilitation.png] Physical Medicine &amp;
            Rehabilitation
          + [plastic_surgery.png] Plastic Surgery
          + [podiatry.png] Podiatry
          + [preventive_medicine.png] Preventive Medicine
          + [psychiatry.png] Psychiatry
          + [psychology.png] Psychology
          + [health_public.png] Public Health
          + [pulmonology.png] Pulmonology
          + [quality_improvement.png] Quality Improvement
          + [radiation_oncology.png] Radiation Oncology
          + [radiology.png] Radiology
          + [rheumatology.png] Rheumatology
          + [sports_medicine.png] Sports Medicine
          + [substance_use_and_addiction.png] Substance Use and Addiction
          + [therapeutics.png] Therapeutics
          + [transplantation.png] Transplantation
          + [trauma.png] Trauma
          + [urology.png] Urology
          + [miscellaneous.png] Miscellaneous



   Resources [nav-right-arrow.png]

       [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] Resources

About Publishing
       Why publish in Cureus? Click below to find out.
     * [arrow-right-blue.png] Learn more
    For Authors &amp; Reviewers
     * [author-guide.png] Author Guide
     * [reviewer-guide.png] Reviewer Guide
     * [media-guide.png] Media Guide
     * [preferred-editing-service.png] Author Fees (Preferred Editing)
     * [cureus-honors.png] Cureus Honors
     * [tag.png] Article Promotion
     * [sharing.png] Article Sharing Guide
     * [shield.png] SIQ



   Academic Channels [nav-right-arrow.png]

       [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] Academic Channels

About Channels
       Unlock discounted publishing that highlights your organization and
       the peer-reviewed research and clinical experiences it produces.
     * [arrow-right-blue.png] Learn more
    Channels
     * [channel_logo_1563472685-ACOS_cardiothoracic_logo.png] ACOS
       Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery
     * [channel_logo_1563472913-ACOS_gen_surg_logo.png] ACOS General
       Surgery
     * [channel_logo_1550341068-AONS_gold_logo_edited_021619.png] ACOS
       Neurological Surgery
     * [channel_logo_1563302199-PLATIClogo_color.jpg] ACOS Plastic and
       Reconstructive Surgery
     * [channel_logo_1563473310-ACOS_urol_logo.png] ACOS Urological
       Surgery
     * [channel_logo_IMG-20220916-WA0001.jpg] Advanced Sciences Academic
       Channel
     * [channel_logo_Picture1.jpg] Alabama College of Osteopathic Medicine
       Research
     * [channel_logo_american-red-cross-logo-vector.png] American Red
       Cross Scientific Advisory Council
     * [channel_logo_Annals_of_Health_Innovation__1_.png] Annals of Health
       Innovation
     * [channel_logo_1603103290-Original.png] Annals of Simulation
     * [channel_logo_unnamed-6.png] Aurora Breast Health Proceedings
     * [channel_logo_AIR-P_Logo_1000x1000_TRANSPARENT__1_.png] Autism and
       Health: Across the Lifespan
     * [channel_logo_1595010280-BSW_logo.png] Baylor Scott &amp; White Medical
       Center Department of Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_Bio-logo_copy.jpg] BioLEAGUES
     * [channel_logo_1561749570-unnamed.jpg] California Institute of
       Behavioral Neurosciences &amp; Psychology
     * [channel_logo_CARO_logo_400__1_.jpg] Canadian Association of
       Radiation Oncology
     * [channel_logo_1549570407-Screen_Shot_2019-02-07_at_3.13.26_PM.png]
       Contemporary Reviews in Neurology and Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_132677_CURIE_1000x1000.jpg] Contemporary Updates:
       Radiotherapy Innovation &amp; Evidence (CURiE)
     * [channel_logo_Screen_Shot_2022-09-29_at_7.07.50_PM.png] Dalhousie
       Emergency Medicine
     * [channel_logo_Safeimagekit-resized-img.png] Datta Meghe Medical
       College
     * [channel_logo_DMIHER_logo.png] DMIHER Center for Advanced
       Physiotherapy Education &amp; Research
     * [channel_logo_unnamed.png] DMIMS School of Epidemiology and Public
       Health
     * [channel_logo_1610476628-NSUFlorida-KPCOM-Stacked-BlueGray_480px.pn
       g] Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Allopathic Medicine (NSUMD)
     * [channel_logo_1610476628-NSUFlorida-KPCOM-Stacked-BlueGray_480px.pn
       g] Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Osteopathic Medicine (KPCOM)
     * [channel_logo_channel_logo_1587670935-channel_logo_flagship.png]
       FLAGSHIP: Medical Scholarly Proceedings
     * [channel_logo_1587732682-FuHGBKUC_400x400.jpg] Florida Atlantic
       University
     * [channel_logo_1588264234-KSTnUYCw_400x400.png] Florida
       International University
     * [channel_logo_1610375772-College-Medicine-Vertical-Color-1_200.jpg]
       Florida State University
     * [channel_logo_Logo.png] Global Remote Research Scholars Program
     * [channel_logo_Howard_Logo_for_Cureus_Channel.png] Howard University
       Internal Medicine
     * [channel_logo_1600102064-logo-white.c9ba0b95.png] International
       Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
     * [channel_logo_1458062764-ipss-channel-logo-400x400.png]
       International Pediatric Simulation Society
     * [channel_logo_1569267141-LOGO_JRSS.png] Japan Radiosurgery Society
     * [channel_logo_Webp.net-resizeimage__4_.jpg] Jawaharlal Nehru
       Medical College
     * [channel_logo_1589819040-download.png] Lake Erie College of
       Osteopathic Medicine (LECOM)
     * [channel_logo_LUCOM-Channel-Seal.jpg] Liberty Medicine Research
       Channel
     * [channel_logo_LSUHS_Vert_Gold-White.png] LSUHS Family Medicine
       Alexandria
     * [channel_logo_MSD_CHANNEL_LOGO_-_Final.png] Medical Society of
       Delaware Academic Channel
     * [channel_logo_MPAC_square-transparent.png] Med-Peds Academic
       Channel
     * [channel_logo_1526494683-logo.png] Military Medical Simulation
     * [channel_logo_MMElogo-page-0.jpg] Modern Medical Educator
     * [channel_logo_1561745716-nb_logo.png] NB Social Pediatrics Research
     * [channel_logo_Negida_Academy_Logo.png] Negida Research Academy
     * [channel_logo_NEMAgroup.png] NEMA Research Group
     * [channel_logo_Woodhull_400x400.png] NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull
     * [channel_logo_Logo-FPP.png] Paolo Procacci Foundation
     * [channel_logo_1459789770-penn-state-hershey-logo-square.png] Penn
       State Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_1606943081-rxu_logo__1_.png] Research Update
       Organization
     * [channel_logo_SIMATS_logo.png] Saveetha Institute of Medical and
       Technical Sciences
     * [channel_logo_SBH-IM-Logo-Pantone-072_White.png] SBH Health System
     * [channel_logo_THE_HEALTHCARE_LAB.PNG] Simulation, Biodesign, &amp;
       Innovation In Medical Education
     * [channel_logo_Academic_Channel_Logo.png] Sinai Chicago Research
     * [channel_logo_Society-Logo.png] Society for Healthcare &amp; Research
       Development
     * [channel_logo_1459446720-stanford-medicine-channel-logo-600x600.png
       ] Stanford Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_TTUHSC_logo_400x400.png] Texas Tech University Health
       Sciences Center El Paso
     * [channel_logo_1593455763-fmsrp_logo.jpg] The Florida Medical
       Student Research Publications
     * [channel_logo_Color_Logo_White_Circle_600x600_-_Cureus_Sized-03.png
       ] The Oxford Center
     * [channel_logo_RSS_Spark_400x2.png] the Radiosurgery Society
     * [channel_logo_1562007282-Logo_image-_sbcvl_VERT.jpg] UCSF Surgical
       Neuroanatomy Collection
     * [channel_logo_UF-jax.jpg] University of Florida College of Medicine
       – Jacksonville
     * [channel_logo_1553024316-4cepMG_U_400x400.png] University of
       Florida-Jacksonville Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_1525976670-logo.png] University of Louisville
       Neurosurgery
     * [channel_logo_1495046465-LMU-logo.jpg] University of Munich
       Neurology
     * [channel_logo_1597339004-usf_logo_final.png] University of South
       Florida
     * [channel_logo_VCOM_4_multi_campus_logo_400x400.png] VCOM Clinical,
       Biomedical, and Educational Research
     * [channel_logo_WCUCOM_Logo_2.JPG] William Carey University College
       of Osteopathic Medicine Scholarly Activities



   Partnerships [nav-right-arrow.png]

       [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] Partnerships

Media Kit
       Offering a variety of advertising and sponsorship options for
       reaching influential specialists from targeted demographic splits.
     * [download.png] Download Media Kit
    Advertising &amp; Sponsorship
     * [about_advertising.png] Advertise With Us
     * [advertising_policy.png] Advertising Policy
     * [partnerships.png] Cureus Partnerships
    Competitions
     * [about_comps.png] About Competitions
     * [past_comps.png] Competition Archive



   Newsroom [nav-right-arrow.png]

       [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] Newsroom

Browse
       [elements-blue.png] All [news.png] News [cureusu.png] Cureus U
       [newsletters.png] Newsletters
    Highlights
     * [thumbnail_1581108533-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Int._Med.jpg]
       Latest Highlighted Internal Medicine Articles
     * [thumbnail_1580321620-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Gastro.jpg]
       Latest Highlighted Gastroenterology Articles
     * [thumbnail_1589238064-ped1.jpg] Latest Highlighted Pediatric
       Articles
     * [thumbnail_AdobeStock_404759818.jpeg] Latest Highlighted Family
       Medicine Articles
     * [thumbnail_AdobeStock_335342437.jpeg] Latest Highlighted
       Anesthesiology Articles
     * [thumbnail_1580320914-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Card.jpg] Latest
       Highlighted Cardiology Articles



   About Us [nav-right-arrow.png]

       [nav-left-arrow-blue.png] About Us

About Cureus
       Cureus provides an equitable, efficient publishing and peer
       reviewing experience without sacrificing publication times.
     * [arrow-right-blue.png] Learn more
    Who We Are
     * [editorial-board.png] Editorial Board
     * [associate-editors.png] Associate Editors
     * [academic-council.png] Academic Council
    Contributors
     * [edit.png] Authors
     * [reviewers.png] Reviewers
    More From Cureus
     * [careers.png] Careers
     * [email-alerts.png] Email Alerts



   ISSN #2168-8184

     *
     *
     * Sign In
     * Create an Account

   [cureus-logo-new-nav.png]
   [cureus-logo-new-nav.png]
     * Specialties

Browse
       [article-icon.png] Articles
       [poster-icon.png] Posters
       [abstract-icon.png] Abstracts
       [collections-blue.png] Cureus Collections

Specialties
       More [orange-arrow-right.png]
       [allergy_immunology.png] Allergy / Immunology [anatomy.png] Anatomy
       [anesthesiology.png] Anesthesiology
       [cardiac_thoracic_vascular_surgery.png] Cardiac / Thoracic /
       Vascular Surgery [cardiology.png] Cardiology [dentistry.png]
       Dentistry [dermatology.png] Dermatology [emergency_medicine.png]
       Emergency Medicine [endocrinology_diabetes_metabolism.png]
       Endocrinology / Diabetes / Metabolism [environmental_health.png]
       Environmental Health [epidemiology_public_health.png] Epidemiology
       / Public Health [family_general_practice.png] Family / General
       Practice [forensic_medicine.png] Forensic Medicine
       [gastroenterology.png] Gastroenterology [general_surgery.png]
       General Surgery [genetics.png] Genetics [geriatrics.png] Geriatrics
       [healthcare_technology.png] Healthcare Technology
       [health_policy.png] Health Policy [hematology.png] Hematology
       [hiv_aids.png] HIV / AIDS [infectious_disease.png] Infectious
       Disease
       [integrative_complementary_medicine.png] Integrative /
       Complementary Medicine [internal_medicine.png] Internal Medicine
       [medical_education.png] Medical Education [medical_physics.png]
       Medical Physics [medical_simulation.png] Medical Simulation
       [nephrology.png] Nephrology [neurology.png] Neurology
       [neurosurgery.png] Neurosurgery [nuclear_medicine.png] Nuclear
       Medicine [nutrition.png] Nutrition [obstetrics_gynecology.png]
       Obstetrics / Gynecology [occupational_health.png] Occupational
       Health [oncology.png] Oncology [ophthalmology.png] Ophthalmology
       [oral_medicine.png] Oral Medicine [orthopedics.png] Orthopedics
       [osteopathic_medicine.png] Osteopathic Medicine
       [otolaryngology.png] Otolaryngology [pain_management.png] Pain
       Management [palliative_care.png] Palliative Care [pathology.png]
       Pathology [pediatrics.png] Pediatrics
       [pediatric_surgery.png] Pediatric Surgery
       [physical_medicine_rehabilitation.png] Physical Medicine &amp;
       Rehabilitation [plastic_surgery.png] Plastic Surgery [podiatry.png]
       Podiatry [preventive_medicine.png] Preventive Medicine
       [psychiatry.png] Psychiatry [psychology.png] Psychology
       [health_public.png] Public Health [pulmonology.png] Pulmonology
       [quality_improvement.png] Quality Improvement
       [radiation_oncology.png] Radiation Oncology [radiology.png]
       Radiology [rheumatology.png] Rheumatology [sports_medicine.png]
       Sports Medicine [substance_use_and_addiction.png] Substance Use and
       Addiction [therapeutics.png] Therapeutics [transplantation.png]
       Transplantation [trauma.png] Trauma [urology.png] Urology
       [miscellaneous.png] Miscellaneous
     * Resources

About Publishing
       Why publish in Cureus? Click below to find out.
       [arrow-right-blue.png]

Learn more

For Authors &amp; Reviewers
       [author-guide.png] Author Guide
       [preferred-editing-service.png] Author Fees (Preferred Editing)
       [sharing.png] Article Sharing Guide
       [reviewer-guide.png] Reviewer Guide
       [cureus-honors.png] Cureus Honors
       [shield.png] SIQ
       [media-guide.png] Media Guide
       [tag.png] Article Promotion
     * Academic Channels

About Channels
       Unlock discounted publishing that highlights your organization and
       the peer-reviewed research and clinical experiences it produces.
       [arrow-right-blue.png]

Learn more

Channels
       More [orange-arrow-right.png]
       [channel_logo_1563472685-ACOS_cardiothoracic_logo.png] ACOS
       Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery
       [channel_logo_1563472913-ACOS_gen_surg_logo.png] ACOS General
       Surgery
       [channel_logo_1550341068-AONS_gold_logo_edited_021619.png] ACOS
       Neurological Surgery
       [channel_logo_1563302199-PLATIClogo_color.jpg] ACOS Plastic and
       Reconstructive Surgery
       [channel_logo_1563473310-ACOS_urol_logo.png] ACOS Urological
       Surgery
       [channel_logo_IMG-20220916-WA0001.jpg] Advanced Sciences Academic
       Channel
       [channel_logo_Picture1.jpg] Alabama College of Osteopathic Medicine
       Research
       [channel_logo_american-red-cross-logo-vector.png] American Red
       Cross Scientific Advisory Council
       [channel_logo_Annals_of_Health_Innovation__1_.png] Annals of Health
       Innovation
       [channel_logo_1603103290-Original.png] Annals of Simulation
       [channel_logo_unnamed-6.png] Aurora Breast Health Proceedings
       [channel_logo_AIR-P_Logo_1000x1000_TRANSPARENT__1_.png] Autism and
       Health: Across the Lifespan
       [channel_logo_1595010280-BSW_logo.png] Baylor Scott &amp; White Medical
       Center Department of Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_Bio-logo_copy.jpg] BioLEAGUES
       [channel_logo_1561749570-unnamed.jpg] California Institute of
       Behavioral Neurosciences &amp; Psychology
       [channel_logo_CARO_logo_400__1_.jpg] Canadian Association of
       Radiation Oncology
       [channel_logo_1549570407-Screen_Shot_2019-02-07_at_3.13.26_PM.png]
       Contemporary Reviews in Neurology and Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_132677_CURIE_1000x1000.jpg] Contemporary Updates:
       Radiotherapy Innovation &amp; Evidence (CURiE)
       [channel_logo_Screen_Shot_2022-09-29_at_7.07.50_PM.png] Dalhousie
       Emergency Medicine
       [channel_logo_Safeimagekit-resized-img.png] Datta Meghe Medical
       College
       [channel_logo_DMIHER_logo.png] DMIHER Center for Advanced
       Physiotherapy Education &amp; Research
       [channel_logo_unnamed.png] DMIMS School of Epidemiology and Public
       Health
       [channel_logo_1610476628-NSUFlorida-KPCOM-Stacked-BlueGray_480px.pn
       g] Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Allopathic Medicine (NSUMD)
       [channel_logo_1610476628-NSUFlorida-KPCOM-Stacked-BlueGray_480px.pn
       g] Dr. Kiran C. Patel College of Osteopathic Medicine (KPCOM)
       [channel_logo_channel_logo_1587670935-channel_logo_flagship.png]
       FLAGSHIP: Medical Scholarly Proceedings
       [channel_logo_1587732682-FuHGBKUC_400x400.jpg] Florida Atlantic
       University
       [channel_logo_1588264234-KSTnUYCw_400x400.png] Florida
       International University
       [channel_logo_1610375772-College-Medicine-Vertical-Color-1_200.jpg]
       Florida State University
       [channel_logo_Logo.png] Global Remote Research Scholars Program
       [channel_logo_Howard_Logo_for_Cureus_Channel.png] Howard University
       Internal Medicine
       [channel_logo_1600102064-logo-white.c9ba0b95.png] International
       Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
       [channel_logo_1458062764-ipss-channel-logo-400x400.png]
       International Pediatric Simulation Society
       [channel_logo_1569267141-LOGO_JRSS.png] Japan Radiosurgery Society
       [channel_logo_Webp.net-resizeimage__4_.jpg] Jawaharlal Nehru
       Medical College
       [channel_logo_1589819040-download.png] Lake Erie College of
       Osteopathic Medicine (LECOM)
       [channel_logo_LUCOM-Channel-Seal.jpg] Liberty Medicine Research
       Channel
       [channel_logo_LSUHS_Vert_Gold-White.png] LSUHS Family Medicine
       Alexandria
       [channel_logo_MSD_CHANNEL_LOGO_-_Final.png] Medical Society of
       Delaware Academic Channel
       [channel_logo_MPAC_square-transparent.png] Med-Peds Academic
       Channel
       [channel_logo_1526494683-logo.png] Military Medical Simulation
       [channel_logo_MMElogo-page-0.jpg] Modern Medical Educator
       [channel_logo_1561745716-nb_logo.png] NB Social Pediatrics Research
       [channel_logo_Negida_Academy_Logo.png] Negida Research Academy
       [channel_logo_NEMAgroup.png] NEMA Research Group
       [channel_logo_Woodhull_400x400.png] NYC Health + Hospitals/Woodhull
       [channel_logo_Logo-FPP.png] Paolo Procacci Foundation
       [channel_logo_1459789770-penn-state-hershey-logo-square.png] Penn
       State Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_1606943081-rxu_logo__1_.png] Research Update
       Organization
       [channel_logo_SIMATS_logo.png] Saveetha Institute of Medical and
       Technical Sciences
       [channel_logo_SBH-IM-Logo-Pantone-072_White.png] SBH Health System
       [channel_logo_THE_HEALTHCARE_LAB.PNG] Simulation, Biodesign, &amp;
       Innovation In Medical Education
       [channel_logo_Academic_Channel_Logo.png] Sinai Chicago Research
       [channel_logo_Society-Logo.png] Society for Healthcare &amp; Research
       Development
       [channel_logo_1459446720-stanford-medicine-channel-logo-600x600.png
       ] Stanford Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_TTUHSC_logo_400x400.png] Texas Tech University Health
       Sciences Center El Paso
       [channel_logo_1593455763-fmsrp_logo.jpg] The Florida Medical
       Student Research Publications
       [channel_logo_Color_Logo_White_Circle_600x600_-_Cureus_Sized-03.png
       ] The Oxford Center
       [channel_logo_RSS_Spark_400x2.png] the Radiosurgery Society
       [channel_logo_1562007282-Logo_image-_sbcvl_VERT.jpg] UCSF Surgical
       Neuroanatomy Collection
       [channel_logo_UF-jax.jpg] University of Florida College of Medicine
       – Jacksonville
       [channel_logo_1553024316-4cepMG_U_400x400.png] University of
       Florida-Jacksonville Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_1525976670-logo.png] University of Louisville
       Neurosurgery
       [channel_logo_1495046465-LMU-logo.jpg] University of Munich
       Neurology
       [channel_logo_1597339004-usf_logo_final.png] University of South
       Florida
       [channel_logo_VCOM_4_multi_campus_logo_400x400.png] VCOM Clinical,
       Biomedical, and Educational Research
       [channel_logo_WCUCOM_Logo_2.JPG] William Carey University College
       of Osteopathic Medicine Scholarly Activities
     * Partnerships

Media Kit
       Offering a variety of advertising and sponsorship options for
       reaching influential specialists from targeted demographic splits.
       [download.png]

Download Media Kit

Advertising &amp; Sponsorships

Competitions
       [about_advertising.png] Advertise With Us
       [about_comps.png] About Competitions
       [advertising_policy.png] Advertising Policy
       [past_comps.png] Competition Archive
       [partnerships.png] Cureus Partnerships
     * Newsroom

Browse
       [elements-blue.png] All
       [news.png] News
       [cureusu.png] Cureus U
       [newsletters.png] Newsletters

Highlights
       More [orange-arrow-right.png]
       [thumbnail_1581108533-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Int._Med.jpg]
       Latest Highlighted Internal Medicine Articles
       [thumbnail_1580321620-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Gastro.jpg]
       Latest Highlighted Gastroenterology Articles
       [thumbnail_1589238064-ped1.jpg] Latest Highlighted Pediatric
       Articles
       [thumbnail_AdobeStock_404759818.jpeg] Latest Highlighted Family
       Medicine Articles
       [thumbnail_AdobeStock_335342437.jpeg] Latest Highlighted
       Anesthesiology Articles
       [thumbnail_1580320914-Newsroom_Thumbnail_Cureus_U_Card.jpg] Latest
       Highlighted Cardiology Articles
     * About Us

About Cureus
       Cureus provides an equitable, efficient publishing and peer
       reviewing experience without sacrificing publication times.
       [arrow-right-blue.png]

Learn more

Who We Are

Contributors

More From Cureus
       [editorial-board.png] Editorial Board
       [edit.png] Authors
       [careers.png] Careers
       [associate-editors.png] Associate Editors
       [reviewers.png] Reviewers
       [email-alerts.png] Email Alerts
       [academic-council.png] Academic Council

   SUBMIT RESEARCH SIGN IN JOIN NOW

   On May 25, 2018, the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) went
   into effect and changed how organizations deal with personal data of
   customers located in the EU. Though GDPR was built to protect
   Europeans, it will affect organizations around the world doing business
   in the EU. Because of this we are asking our users located in the EU to
   opt in to the data we collect in order to bring a better web
   experience. Opt-In

Enter your email address to receive your free PDF download.

   Please note that by doing so you agree to be added to our monthly email
   newsletter distribution list.
   ____________________
   send
   [close_x-d4cc40a348b79c3ba8ee78bbb6f90b1e.png]
   [close_x-d4cc40a348b79c3ba8ee78bbb6f90b1e.png]
   New here? Sign up.

Sign in to Cureus

   sign in using LinkedIn
   sign in using Google
   sign in using Facebook
     __________________________________________________________________

   or
   Sign in with your email address:
   Email
   ____________________
   Password
   ____________________
   Sign in
   Don't have an account? Sign Up
   Forgot your password?
   Resend confirmation instructions
   [close_x-d4cc40a348b79c3ba8ee78bbb6f90b1e.png]

Sign up for Cureus

   sign up using LinkedIn
   sign up using Google
   sign up using Facebook
     __________________________________________________________________

   or
   First name
   ____________________
   Last name
   ____________________
   Email
   ____________________
   Password
   ____________________
   Specialty
   [I'm not a medical professional._____]

Email Communication and Personal Data

   [ ]
   Cureus personal data will never be sold to third parties and will only
   be used to enrich the user experience and contact you in direct
   relation to the application. I agree to opt in to this communication.

   IFRAME: ReCAPTCHA


                   ____________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________

   By joining Cureus, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
   Sign up

Download Cureus Media Kit

   ____________________
   ____________________
   ____________________
   ____________________
   ____________________
   [X] I would like to receive Cureus newsletters and updates.

   IFRAME: ReCAPTCHA


                   ____________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   Download
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-28">
<text>
   #ReadWrite » Feed ReadWrite » Comments Feed alternate alternate
   alternate

   ReadWrite
   ×

Grow

     * Sales
     * Marketing
     * Customer Service
     * IoT
     * AR/VR
     * Code
     * Data and Security
     * Energy
     * Hack
     * Web

Lead
          + Productivity
          + Culture
          + Branding
          + Tech
          + Cloud
          + Connect
          + Deals
          + Fund
          + Health
          + Startups

Site Links
               o About
               o Advertise
               o Events
               o Guest Post
               o Contact
               o Privacy
             ReadWrite

                 (BUTTON) Mobile menu Mobile menu
                    # AI
                    # Blockchain
                    # Cryptocurrency
                    # Data and Security
                    # Devices
                    # Fintech
                    # Gambling
                    # Marketing
                    # Productivity
                    # Startups
                    # Reviews
                    # News
                    # More
                 Badge Badge

The Future of Artificial Intelligence (AI): Opportunities, Challenges, and
Impact on Society
                 Jeremy Moser / Nov 25, 2023 / AI / ReadWrite
                 AI impact on society AI impact on society
                    # [svg%3E] [fb-icon-light.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [twitter-icon-light.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [linkedin.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [email-share-icon.png]
                 The 2023 word of the year: artificial intelligence. And
                 it’s pushing the boundaries of technology capabilities
                 and human intelligence.
                 As we venture further into the growth phase of artificial
                 intelligence (AI), the landscape is filled with
                 unparalleled innovations that promise to redefine our way
                 of life.
                 Such promises come with boundless opportunities and
                 intricate challenges that beg for deep reflection and
                 careful navigation. Understanding these facets becomes
                 indispensable for businesses, innovators, and even the
                 everyday citizen at this pivotal juncture.
                 So today, let’s dive into the future of artificial
                 intelligence. We’ll uncover the opportunities that await,
                 the hurdles we must overcome, and the profound impact AI
                 will cast upon our society as we know it.

The Future of Artificial Intelligence (AI): Opportunities

Revolutionizing the Startup World With Automation and Personalization
                 Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a transformative force,
                 revolutionizing how enterprises operate their business.
                 Deloitte surveyed 2,620 global leaders, and 94% of
                 respondents agree that AI is critical to their success.
                 Why? This cutting-edge technology offers tools and
                 solutions that empower companies with valuable insights,
                 streamlined processes, and enhanced customer experiences.
                 So, when starting a new business and trying to keep up
                 with the big dogs, keeping a pulse on AI technology is a
                 surefire way to keep yourself in the running and
                 establish yourself a solid foundation for future success.
                 One way that AI helps entrepreneurs kickstart their
                 online ventures is through market research and data
                 analysis. AI-powered algorithms can swiftly gather and
                 analyze vast amounts of data, providing valuable insights
                 into:
                    # Competitive landscapes
                    # Customer preferences
                    # Market trends
                 With this knowledge, entrepreneurs can make informed
                 decisions, identify untapped opportunities, and tailor
                 their business strategies to meet specific market
                 demands.
                 And that’s just the tip of the iceberg. AI’s automation
                 capabilities are pivotal in streamlining various business
                 processes.
                 You know the drill: work smarter, not harder. For
                 example, with AI text generators, business owners can
                 spend less time on repetitive tasks like writing
                 thousands of product descriptions and more time on growth
                 initiatives.
                 AI-powered chatbots can handle customer inquiries and
                 provide instant support 24/7. This round-the-clock
                 assistance fosters customer satisfaction and engagement,
                 even during non-business hours, ultimately driving sales
                 and brand loyalty. Plus, it takes some of the burden off
                 your customer support team.
                 And then there’s personalization. Recent studies show
                 that 80% of shoppers are more likely to purchase from a
                 brand that goes above and beyond to provide personalized
                 experiences.
                 AI is the perfect tool for recommending relevant products
                 and delivering personalized marketing by analyzing
                 customer behavior and preferences. It’s a no-brainer to
                 let the tools do the heavy lifting, creating a more
                 tailored and appealing experience consumers crave.
                 This level of personalization increases customer
                 engagement and conversion rates, translating into higher
                 revenues and sustainable growth. What’s not to love?

The Rise of Smart Cities: Urban Planning and Infrastructure
                 A report from The Insight Partners predicts the global
                 smart city industry will reach a valuation of $3,110
                 billion by 2028, expanding at a compound annual growth
                 rate (CAGR) of 19%.
                 What’s behind this astronomical growth? Integrating
                 technologies like the Internet of Things (IoT),
                 artificial intelligence, and big data analytics into
                 urban settings.
                 The perks of smart city solutions pave the way for
                 advanced urban design, heightened energy conservation,
                 and superior public services.
                 Both governmental bodies and corporate sectors are
                 pouring funds into these innovations, catering to the
                 escalating demands for greener and more effective city
                 infrastructure.
                 Take, for example, Chattanooga, TN. They’ve joined forces
                 with Seoul Robotics to roll out a lidar-infused traffic
                 control system. This platform feeds the city real-time
                 information on traffic dynamics and bottlenecks.
                 This tech allows this southern Tennesee city to:
                    # Provide swift responses from emergency teams in the
                      case of accidents.
                    # Leverage precise data for refining traffic
                      strategies.
                 But the shift by Chattanooga reflects a larger global
                 transformation. Cities (small and large) are harnessing
                 intelligent tech to upgrade their civic amenities and
                 infrastructure.
                 The future of urban areas? Omnipresent sensors — from
                 lidar to atmospheric monitors — work around the clock to
                 improve the lives of its citizens.
                 The smart city sector is on the brink of a significant
                 surge, a change steered by the embrace of advanced
                 technologies and a universal push for improvements in a
                 sleepy industry. Digital transformation is here to stay.

Unleashing the Potential of Data Analytics and Big Data
                 Thanks to smartphones, IoT, and computers, we’ve been
                 sitting on a surge of big data before defining the term.
                 Sadly, the vastness of this information is too complex
                 and outgrows human analysis. The solution? The rise of AI
                 algorithms.
                 Enter the dynamic duo: AI and big data. Together, they’re
                 shaping future trends in sectors from business to
                 entertainment. AI thrives on this data, deepening its
                 understanding of consumer behaviors through online
                 activities and social interactions. Yet, its
                 effectiveness is tied to the quality of data it consumes.
                 For example, an employee cost calculator powered by AI
                 can only accurately assess the total cost of employment
                 (for hiring new headcount from across the globe) if the
                 data used to train the model is vetted and accurate. As
                 the saying goes, garbage in, garbage out.
                 But Forbes underscores a fascinating point: combining AI
                 with big data could automate almost 80% of the physical
                 work and substantial parts of data processing and
                 collection. This fusion isn’t just streamlining supply
                 chains but reshaping businesses as they pivot strategies
                 based on real-time insights.
                 With AI growing more autonomous and powerful, our future
                 hinges on harmonizing it with our human touch. And
                 upskilling is necessary to prime the next wave of experts
                 for this exciting frontier.

Boosting Creativity: AI in Music, Video, and Design
                 Artistry and design stem from passion, human intuition,
                 and emotion. Yet, the emergence of AI presents a wide
                 range of new avenues for creativity and innovation.
                 Predictive algorithms can forecast fashion trends.
                 AI-driven design software can optimize architectural
                 layouts for efficiency and aesthetics.
                 In graphic design, AI-powered tools can auto-adjust
                 layouts, recommend color schemes, or generate brand
                 logos. The result? A design process that’s more efficient
                 than ever. And you’ll never face a design rut again.
                 On the music front, Paul McCartney told BBC Radio that
                 he’s planning to use artificial intelligence to create
                 the final Beatles song (which’d include vocals from the
                 late John Lennon)—pure magic.
                 Venturing into video production, AI can now auto-curate
                 content, guaranteeing that only the most engaging clips
                 make the final cut. It can also optimize video sequences
                 for color grading, stabilization, and audio
                 synchronization with voice-over services.
                 TL; DR. AI marries the raw, emotive essence of human
                 creativity with the precision and efficiency of machine
                 learning, pushing the boundaries of what’s possible in
                 music, video, and design.

The Future of Artificial Intelligence (AI): Challenges

Overcoming Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Concerns
                 AI requires an enormous amount of data to function
                 correctly — but how do we ensure that the data collected
                 is safe from hackers and other bad actors?
                 ​​The astonishing number of records exposed in 2022, each
                 breach averaging $4.35 million, underscores the
                 vulnerability of our contemporary data systems. Apart
                 from their immediate financial implications, these
                 breaches erode public trust and emphasize the urgent need
                 for more robust data protection measures.
                 As AI systems become more intertwined with daily life,
                 organizations must invest heavily in advanced encryption
                 techniques, multi-factor authentication, and blockchain
                 technology.
                 Machine learning is advancing to help predict and detect
                 breaches. This scenario creates an AI versus AI
                 interstellar — where intelligent algorithms work
                 tirelessly to counteract the malicious intents of rogue
                 AIs or hackers. Genius or totally crazy?
                 53% of global leaders agree that cybersecurity is one of
                 the main threats to the mass adaptation of artificial
                 intelligence. However, only 38% confirmed they
                 implemented practices to safeguard their data.
                 Is there enough time to recoup this gap?

Navigating the Regulatory Landscape of AI Technologies
                 As AI rockets us into the future, ‌government regulations
                 must play catch-up.
                 And Elon Musk (of all people) is spearheading this
                 movement. He says, “There is a real danger for digital
                 superintelligence having negative consequences,” and he’s
                 “in favor of AI regulation.”
                 The problem? Developers are racing to produce
                 increasingly powerful digital intellects. According to a
                 letter by 1,000 tech leaders, they are so complex that
                 even their creators can’t comprehend, anticipate, or
                 consistently regulate them. It sounds like a scene from
                 one of those Sci-fi movies.
                 It’s clear that we need clear guidelines and policies for
                 using AI ethically and safely. But what will that look
                 like? And who’s responsible? Hopefully, we’ll figure it
                 out before it’s too late.

The Future of Artificial Intelligence (AI): Impact on Society

Enhancing Accessibility: How AI Empowers Individuals with Disabilities
                 There’s more to AI than self-driving cars. AI has emerged
                 as a glimmer of hope for individuals with disabilities.
                 One such significant stride was the development of
                 text-to-speech software. This kind of software, often
                 touted as the best among AI applications, does much more
                 than just transform written content into spoken words.
                 Its impact on society and the potential for future growth
                 is miraculous.
                 Picture a world where the visually impaired can
                 experience books like those with sight do. Where language
                 barriers dissolve, and educational content is accessible
                 to all.
                 These are the possibilities brought to life by artificial
                 intelligence. And it’s quickly becoming a staple tool for
                 communication, education, and entertainment (on top of
                 helping people with disabilities).
                 With AI, barriers are gradually diminishing, ushering in
                 an era of increased inclusivity around every corner.
                 AI’s push for inclusivity in the workplace is reshaping
                 HR management strategies. Modern HR teams harness AI
                 tools, from accessibility software to real-time
                 translations, to foster more inclusive environments.
                 In turn, these tools enrich company culture and expand
                 talent pools, capturing a wealth of diverse skills and
                 perspectives. That’s a huge win.

Educational Evolution: The Intersection of AI and Lifelong Learning
                 While AI gives quick answers, it doesn’t always
                 prioritize effective methods that foster a genuine
                 learning experience.
                 So, are our future generations at risk of losing out on a
                 traditional education? Alarmingly, AI can deliver flawed
                 content in‌ convincing ways, like by providing incorrect
                 math solutions. And students take it at face value.
                 With that comes anxiety among students about their
                 future. What will their jobs look like? Are they falling
                 behind if they’re not keeping up with AI trends? It’s a
                 melting pot of concerns.
                 But all experts agree: the evolving role of AI in
                 education requires immediate attention to ensure its
                 positive and ethical influence on the future of our
                 society.
                 According to the Office of Educational Technology, they
                 envision a technology-enhanced future in education that
                 is “more like an electric bike and less like robot
                 vacuums.”
                 The students are aware and fully in control, but their
                 workload is less, and their effort is multiplied by
                 technological advancements. But only time will tell how
                 this plays out.

Finding the Perfect Balance Between AI and Human Intervention
                 AI’s potential is undeniable. But so is the unique value
                 of human intuition and emotion. Striking the right
                 balance will be essential for long-term adoption.
                 Automated systems may handle data crunching, but humans
                 provide context, empathy, and judgment. The key? AI
                 complements, rather than replaces, human capabilities.
                 Because when it comes to decisions, especially important
                 ones like health, we still need that human touch.
                 Imagine using AI to help patients achieve their weight
                 loss goals. AI tools can look at a patient’s health
                 history, diet, genes, and activity to suggest the best
                 treatment plan.
                 But here’s where doctors will continue to play a crucial
                 role. When prescribing weight loss medication, they
                 consider things the AI might miss, like a patient’s
                 feelings or recent research.
                 A doctor can talk to the patient about how the medicine
                 might make them feel, the benefits, and any risks. This
                 human dialogue is important because it ensures the
                 patient is entirely on board with (and understands) the
                 treatment plan.
                 While AI offers precise, data-informed suggestions, the
                 human touch grounds these decisions. Embracing AI’s speed
                 and the depth of human understanding will be instrumental
                 in shaping a future where technology enhances, not
                 replaces, our inherent human strengths.

Wrapping Up
                 The future of artificial intelligence technology holds
                 great promise for improving our lives, driving
                 innovation, and solving complex business problems.
                 It’s an exciting time to be at the forefront of AI
                 research and development as we shape a future where
                 machines and humans work hand in hand to create a better
                 world.
                 Featured Image Credit: Photo by Cameron Casey; Pexels
                    # [svg%3E] [fb-icon-light.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [twitter-icon-light.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [insta-icon-light.png]
                    # [svg%3E] [email-share-icon.png]

Jeremy Moser

                 Jeremy is co-founder &amp; CEO at uSERP, a digital PR and SEO
                 agency working with brands like Monday, ActiveCampaign,
                 Hotjar, and more. He also buys and builds SaaS companies
                 like Wordable.io and writes for publications like
                 Entrepreneur and Search Engine Journal.
                    # [svg%3E] [linkedin-icon-dark.png]

Related Posts
                    #

Sam Altman officially returns to OpenAI as CEO
                    # Accident Amazon safety reevaluation Accident Amazon
                      safety reevaluation

Tragic accident spurs Amazon safety reevaluation
                    # No-Code and Low-Code No-Code and Low-Code

Streamlining Front-line Operations: Power of No...
                    # Amazon Largest Delivery Company Amazon Largest
                      Delivery Company

Amazon surpasses UPS and FedEx as largest deliv...


                    # About
                    # Advertise
                    # Editorial Guidelines
                    # Careers
                    # Contact
                    # Privacy
                    # Subscribe
                    # Best Crypto Casinos
                    # Casino Utan Svensk Licens
                    # © ReadWrite, INC 2023 – Crypto promotions on this
                      site do not comply with the UK Financial Promotions
                      Regime and is not intended for UK consumers.
                    # Facebook
                    # Twitter
                    # Instagram
                    # Youtube
                    # Linkedin
                    # Medium
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-29">
<text>
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-53WWBQ5

   Sections
     * Subscribe
     * Leadership
     * Innovation
     * Billionaires
     * Startups
     * Podcasts
     * Videos
     * Life
     * Cryptocurrency
     * Blogs
     * Lists
     * Thought Leadership
     * Magazine

   Lists
     * Mentors and Mavens
     * All Stories

     * To The Point
     * One Thing Today in Tech
     * Tech Conversations
     * Money Talks
     * Startup Fridays
     * From the Bookshelves
     * All Podcasts

     * Leadership Mantras
     * Pathbreakers
     * Lets Talk About
     * One Thing Today in Tech
     * Momentum
     * Nuts and Bolts
     * In Conversation With
     * From the Field
     * Beyond the Boardroom
     * All Videos

     * 2022 India's Top Digital Stars
     * 30 Under 30 2022
     * India's 100 Great People Managers 2021
     * Tycoons of Tomorrow 2021
     * W-Power 2021
     * India Rich List 2021
     * 30 Under 30 2021
     * India's 100 Great People Managers 2020
     * India Rich List 2020
     * Self Made Women 2020
     * 30 Under 30

     * Latest Issue

     * Column
     * Special
     * Leaderboard
     * Exit Interview
     * Close Range
     * World Watch
     * Ideas &amp; Opinion
     * Hindsight
     * Briefing
     * Breakpoint
     * Resolution
     * Numerix
     * Greyscale

     * Corporate Account
     * First Principles
     * Global Game
     * Enterprise
     * Special Report

     * Recliner
     * Traveller
     * Health
     * Appraisals
     * F-index
     * Cheat Sheet
     * Tip-Off
     * Nuggets
     * Frequent Flier
     * Style
     * Ex-Libris
     * Special
     * Thoughts
     * Engage
     * Forbes Life
     * Auto

     * Think
     * Live
     * Work
     * Play

     * Business Evangelist of India
     * Education Evangelists of India
     * IIM Kozhikode
     * WeSchool
     * SP Jain School of Global Management
     * Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's SPJIMR
     * ESMT
     * IESE Business School
     * IIM Bangalore
     * Great Lakes Institute of Management
     * London Business School
     * Kellogg School of Management
     * EDHEC

     * Video
     * Slideshow
     * Audio
     * Twinterview

     * Leadership
       Mentors and Mavens All Stories
     * Innovation
     * Billionaires
     * Lists
     * Startups
     * Podcasts
       To The Point One Thing Today in Tech Tech Conversations Money Talks
       Startup Fridays From the Bookshelves All Podcasts
     * Videos
       Leadership Mantras Pathbreakers Lets Talk About One Thing Today in
       Tech Momentum Nuts and Bolts In Conversation With From the Field
       Beyond the Boardroom All Videos
     * Life
     * Subscribe
     *

   ____________________
   Mentors and Mavens All Stories
   To The Point Daily Tech Brief Tech Conversations Money Talks Startup
   Fridays From the Bookshelves All Podcasts
   Leadership Mantras Pathbreakers Lets Talk About One Thing Today in Tech
   Momentum Nuts and Bolts In Conversation With From the Field Beyond the
   Boardroom All Videos
   India's Top 100 Digital Stars 2023
    1. Home
    2. Thought Leadership
    3. Fuqua School of Business
    4. Marketers say Artificial Intelligence has a positive impact on
       performance

Marketers say Artificial Intelligence has a positive impact on performance

The CMO Survey also points to uncertainty about future spending on diversity,
equity and inclusion efforts

   By Fuqua School of Business
   Published: Nov 29, 2023 11:55:13 AM IST
   Updated: Nov 29, 2023 12:03:28 PM IST
     *
     *
     *
     *

     *

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

     *
     *

   Marketers say Artificial Intelligence has a positive impact on
   performance In the past three years, 94.1% of marketers started
   integrating AI in their processes, 60.4% just in the last 12 months.
   Image: Shutterstock
   Marketing leaders reported a rising optimism about the U.S. economic
   outlook for next year, despite inflation’s ongoing, dampening effect on
   marketing spending. More companies also report integrating artificial
   intelligence into marketing, saying it has had a positive impact. Fewer
   marketers expect diversity, equity and inclusion efforts to be a
   priority in the next five years.
   These are some of the latest results of The CMO Survey, a biannual
   effort of Deloitte LLP, Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business, and
   the American Marketing Association. The survey is directed by Fuqua
   marketing professor, Christine Moorman. The research sampled 316
   marketing leaders at for-profit U.S. companies, 96% of whom hold
   positions at a vice president level or higher.

Marketing spending softens

   Overall, marketing budgets as a percentage of company budgets dropped
   to 10.6% this past year, near pre-Covid levels.

Related stories

     * Trust in the age of influencers

Trust in the age of influencers
     * How good is that deal? Fuqua professor says "original" prices may
       be misleading

How good is that deal? Fuqua professor says "original" prices may be
misleading
     * Too many choices: A model to predict open-ended consumer decisions

Too many choices: A model to predict open-ended consumer decisions

   Marketing spending rose 2.6% for the year, reflecting a 75% drop in
   growth compared with the figure a year ago (10.4%). However, consistent
   with the positive future outlook, spending is expected to grow to 7.2%
   next year.
   “Despite inflation hitting marketing spending this past year, CMOs seem
   to be more optimistic about the coming year, buoyed by stronger
   financial, customer and brand performance,” Moorman said.
   While the overall marketing investments are expected to be positive,
   spending for Customer Relationship Management, Customer Experience, and
   Brand Building, are all predicted to grow less in the next 12 months
   compared to last year.
   The 43% drop in Brand Building investments (from 9.6% to 5.5%) is
   particularly “dramatic,” says Christine Moorman.
   “One reason for this may be that marketers report a similar level
   increase in brand value, suggesting investments may be softened to
   ensure their ROI,” Moorman said.
   Also read: How tech can transform luxury brands' value proposition

AI use in marketing

   In the past three years, 94.1% of marketers started integrating AI in
   their processes, 60.4% just in the last 12 months.
   Roughly half of marketing leaders reported using AI for content
   personalization and content creation. In content creation, more than
   50% used AI for blogs, website content, social media, and email
   content.
   Overall, marketers reported a positive impact of AI technologies on
   sales (+6.2%), customer satisfaction (+7%) and marketing overhead costs
   (-7.2%).
   The survey points to several ways that marketing organizations could
   deepen their use of AI in marketing.
   “Marketers can increase use of AI to improve marketing ROI by
   optimizing the content and timing of digital marketing, for
   programmatic advertising and media buying, for predictive analytics for
   customer insights, and for targeting decisions,” Moorman noted. “These
   are all currently underutilized, with only one third of marketing
   organizations using AI for these purposes.”

Digital strategies

   A larger share of companies are in deeper stages of their digital
   transformation than a year ago.
   Although spending for influencers, mobile, and social media took a hit
   compared with last survey, CMOs predict investments in all three
   categories to grow significantly in the next 3-5 years (respectively:
   +109% to 12.2% of marketing budgets; +72% to 26.9%; and +65.8% to
   24.3%).
   Despite these announced investments, marketers reported these channels
   contributed only modestly to their companies’ performance, a skepticism
   that might be explained by their scarce reliance on experiments to
   quantify the impact of marketing actions on customers (only 36%
   reported running such experiments).
   “Marketing budgets will continue to be increasingly digital,” Moorman
   said. “Stronger use of AI and experiments that allow for insight into
   what is causing marketing investments to succeed or fail will be
   necessary for these budgets to pay off in companies.”

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion spending slows down

   With economic uncertainty, DEI initiatives took a hit this past year.
   This year’s growth in marketing spending on DEI initiatives dropped
   10.7% compared with a year ago, down to 2.3% annual growth. Fewer
   marketers reported that DEI is expected to be a priority over the next
   few years (less than 50% said DEI will be a priority). Overall,
   marketers said DEI has a weak impact on stock returns, sales, customer
   retention, customer acquisition, employee attraction and retention.
   “One reason for weaker DEI investments is that companies have not yet
   established a process to review and/or evaluate marketing decisions
   from a DEI perspective,” Moorman said. “We have been measuring the
   presence of this process since 2021 and it remains modest at 3.3 on a
   7-point scale where 1=not at all and 7=very highly. In fact, it is
   lower than it was in 2021 when it registered at 3.6. Without such a
   process in place, it is unlikely that DEI efforts in marketing will
   succeed.”
   Moorman noted that the top three social issues brands act for or
   against are LGBTQ+ equality, COVID-19, and racial equality— with
   roughly 50% of brands acting on each of those issues. Actions related
   to abortion (+580%), firearms (+227%), and climate-related issues
   (+70%) had the largest increases since 2021 as these hot-button
   societal issues have intensified in the last few years.
   Also read: Auto-renew snags new subscribers — but it's not a good way
   to keep them

Marketing jobs

   Marketing departments’ size grew this past quarter more than the
   previous quarter (5.5% versus 3.4%), but this growth rate is slower
   than last year (12.2% and 15.1% increases in the 2022 surveys). CMOs
   reported that 20.2% of marketing activities are outsourced, a
   percentage that is expected to increase by 5% next year.
   “This growth is likely being fueled by the range of digital innovations
   that are infiltrating marketing, Moorman said. “Marketing organizations
   may need help to get up to speed efficiently.”
   At the same time, marketing hires for more standard roles are predicted
   to grow faster next year, fueled by stronger budgets, the survey shows.

Disintermediation trend

   Companies continued to add Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) channels,
   reinforcing a 10-year trend that sees firms rely less on ‘channel
   partners’ (like distributors, affiliates, etc.). There are industry
   outliers to this trend, though: Manufacturing, Consumer Packaged Goods
   companies, and large companies ($1B-10B+) continue to heavily use
   channel partners.

Marketing performance

   Companies’ performance proved strong relative to the pandemic, with
   profits and sales growing or remaining positive this quarter. Customer
   retention, customer acquisition, and brand value also strengthened this
   past year, with brand value increasing dramatically (+54%) from 6.3%
   growth last year to reach 9.7% in this survey.
   Moorman linked the aforementioned marketer optimism to these
   performance trends noting, “Marketing leaders seem to be focused on the
   quality of their returns and not worried about shrinking budgets. AI
   and digital strategies are also likely boosting their outlook on the
   future,” she said.
   Another reason for marketers’ brighter outlook may lie in the reported
   increase in collecting, sharing, and using more customer information to
   shape and evaluate marketing strategies—levels that have all increased
   over the last five years. “Nearly 30 years of scholarly and
   practitioner research shows that these types of information activities
   have a positive effect on company financial performance,” Moorman said.
   Founded in 2008, The CMO Survey is administered twice a year. For more
   results and a historical archive, check https://cmosurvey.org/

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed//BSctaF8Vyf0

   Subscribe Now

   [This article has been reproduced with permission from Duke
   University's Fuqua School of Business. This piece originally appeared
   on Duke Fuqua Insights]
     *
     *
     *

     *
     *
     *
     *

   Get the latest stories, videos, and podcasts from Forbes India directly
   in your inbox every Saturday
   ____________________ (BUTTON) SUBMIT
   (BUTTON) Marketing (BUTTON) Artificial Intelligence (AI) (BUTTON) US
   (BUTTON) Inflation (BUTTON) Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
   (BUTTON) Customer
   Post Your Comment
   Name
   ____________________
   Required
   Email Address
   ____________________
   Required, will not be published
   Comment

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   All comments are moderated
   (BUTTON) Post
   Thank you for your comment, we value your opinion and the time you took
   to write to us!
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Forbes India Lists

   Get the latest stories, videos, and podcasts from Forbes India directly
   in your inbox every Saturday
   ____________________ (BUTTON) SUBMIT
   Insta-Subscribe to Forbes India Magazine
   Forbes India Latest Issue

   For hassle free instant subscription, just give your number and email
   id and our customer care agent will get in touch with you
   ____________________ ____________________ Forbes India Subscribe

   OR

   click here to Subscribe Online

Popular Now

    1. Mark Zuckerberg is having his Bill Gates moment
    2. From Tata Technologies IPO to OpenAI drama, here are our most-read
       stories of the week
    3. The network effect: Why companies should care about employees'
       LinkedIn connections
    4. India's finance minister updates on implementation of G20's crypto
       regulation roadmap
    5. Valuation of most listed new-age tech companies not frothy: Raamdeo
       Agrawal
    6. A murky boardroom battle shakes Religare, again
    7. How Exponent is building a sustainable EV infra startup
    8. Beancounters in popular culture: The story behind the art
    9. Global crypto exchange OKX strengthening its India Web3 presence
   10. Disney Star registers highest ever viewers for World Cup final

   Snapdeal to Stellaro: Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal on the thin line
   between conviction and stubbornness
   RED.Health: Providing medical assistance to corporate customers and the
   common man
   © COPYRIGHT 2023, FORBESINDIA.COM ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Latest News

     * Investors make hay as Tata Tech stock shines on debut
     * Animal vs Sam Bahadur: Where is big-screen cinema headed?
     * Gush of hot foreign money set to strike Indian stocks
     * Freshworks' top lineup takes shape amid hope that NRR will bottom
       out
     * Five things to watch for at COP28 climate talks
     * Photo of the day: Romance of Taj

     * LEADERSHIP
     * INNOVATION
     * BILLIONAIRES
     * LISTS
     * STARTUPS
     * PODCASTS
     * VIDEOS
     * LIFE

   CONTACT US ADVERTISE WITH US SUBSCRIBE FORBES INDIA MARQUEE LEADERSHIP
   AWARDS
   PRIVACY POLICY COOKIE POLICY TERMS &amp; CONDITIONS DISCLAIMER

   tata tech

   Investors make hay as Tata Tech stock shines on debut
   fii

   Gush of hot foreign money set to strike Indian stocks
   johanna jackman and mika yamamoto

   Freshworks' top lineup takes shape amid hope that NRR will bottom out
   cop28 dubai

   Five things to watch for at COP28 climate talks
   taj mahal

   Photo of the day: Romance of Taj
   designer_iris_van_herpen

   Pioneer designer Iris Van Herpen on fashion that goes 'beyond beauty'
   deepfake sm

   The rise of deepfakes: 25 percent of videos that people watch are later
   found to be fake
   dipali goenka_martha stewart_oct23_mx_043 copy_sm

   With the world in its present state, a stable economy like India is a
   nice place to work in: Martha Stewart
   road accidents

   India's Road Safety Hell: Over 4.61 lakh accidents in 2022
   ai

   Ten ways AI is transforming marketing
   byjus

   Morning Buzz: Prosus cuts Byju's valuation by more than half to $3
   billion; Cabinet extends free foodgrains scheme by five years, and more
   shutterstock_1716525580_sm

   Standard Chartered reiterates its prediction on Bitcoin's projected
   surge to $100,000 by 2024
   gettyimages-1396534134_sm

   Changpeng Zhao resigns as the Chairman of Binance.US board of directors
   sanjay salunkhe

   Jaro and an edtech masterclass
   ustad rashid khan_272-sm

   Ranveer Singh's Rizz, Dystopian Yamuna and Deadname of a transgender
   boy: Words of the Year
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-2">
<text>
   #alternate alternate InCyber » Feed InCyber » Comments Feed

   News and Cyber Community
     * Contributors
     * Talents
     * Nominees
     * Business
     * Opinion
     * Publications
     * Agenda
     * Videos

   Themes
     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Cyber industrial safety
     * Antifraud action
     * Digital identity &amp; KYC

   inCyber
     * Advertising and partnerships
     * About
     * Sitemap
     * Contact us
     * Data protection
     * Legal Notice and Terms

     * Advertising and partnerships
     * picto-mail Newsletter
     * picto-search Search
     * Français
     * English

   Research ____________________ Search

   https://incyber.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/FI_NA_23_Logotype_White_
   EN.png

   The leading
   event on Digital security
   and trust issues
   Read more

   InCyber
     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Français
     * English

     * Advertising and partnerships
     * picto-mail Newsletter
     * picto-search Search
     * Français
     * English

   Research ____________________ Search
   InCyber
     * Events
     * Business
     * Nominees
     * Talents
     * Opinion
     * Publications
     * Videos

   InCyber

   InCyber
     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Français
     * English

   News and Cyber Community
     * Contributors
     * Talents
     * Nominees
     * Business
     * Opinion
     * Publications
     * Agenda
     * Videos

   Themes
     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Cyber industrial safety
     * Antifraud action
     * Digital identity &amp; KYC

   inCyber
     * Advertising and partnerships
     * About
     * Sitemap
     * Contact us
     * Data protection
     * Legal Notice and Terms

     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Cyber industrial safety
     * Antifraud action
     * Digital identity &amp; KYC

   Artificial intelligence: the world is waking up to the risks
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * LinkedIn
     * Email

   2 min

Artificial intelligence: the world is waking up to the risks

   The past week was intense in the world of artificial intelligence (AI).
   In the space of a few days, five documents were published by
   prestigious institutions all examining the issue of AI and its risks to
   humanity. Just a coincidence? Certainly not.
   Cyber risks - Louis Nauges - November 16, 2023

   All these documents refer to the risks linked to Artificial General
   Intelligence (AGI), which is level 2 of AI. Today’s artificial
   intelligence, including generative AI systems like ChatGPT, fall within
   Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI), which is level 1. This artificial
   intelligence can do a single activity as well as a human, perhaps even
   better.

   AGI and its level 3 successor, Artificial Super Intelligence (ASI), are
   AIs that can accomplish all informational activities to a quality level
   that equals or exceeds what humans can produce. Currently, the expert
   consensus is that AGI could arrive between 2030 and 2040. Tomorrow,
   basically.

   These documents point to major risks for humanity, but are they right
   to warn us of these dangers? The answer is clearly yes.  I urge you to
   read all five documents, but if you were to read just one, it would be
   the one by this group of 30 experts.

   This excerpt gives the general tone of the document: “AI advancement
   could culminate in a large-scale loss of life and the biosphere, and
   the marginalization or even extinction of humanity“. It “coolly”
   suggests the extinction of mankind! The three ensuing documents each
   mostly resemble each other. They are very general declarations of
   intent full of goodwill but with little real impact.

   They were published by the United Nations, the G7 as well as the
   Bletchley Summit, an international meeting organized by the United
   Kingdom that was held on November 1 and 2, 2023.

   No one will argue against the ideas expressed in the Bletchley
   Declaration signed by 28 countries with widely divergent interests,
   including the United States, China, India, Israel, Saudi Arabia and the
   European Union.  “The recognition of the need to take account of human
   rights protection, transparency and explicability, fairness,
   accountability, regulation, security, appropriate human oversight,
   ethics, bias mitigation, privacy and data protection.”

   The fifth document is different – it is an executive order signed by
   Joe Biden on October 30, 2023. In 60 pages, the US president lists a
   hundred specific actions to be taken, and for each, the executive order
   names the public authorities in charge of carrying them out.
   Furthermore, the timetable is restrictive, with most of these actions
   being given between 45 and 365 days to be completed. It is far from a
   catalogue of good intentions: it demonstrates the United States’ clear
   desire to do everything it can to maintain its global leadership of AI.

Where is Europe in this concert of recommendations?

   The European Commission has been working on AI since 2020. In June
   2023, it published a document, EU Legislation in Progress, detailing
   work on a European Artificial Intelligence Act (AIA) to follow the
   Digital Service Act and the Digital Market Act. The AIA must now be
   submitted to the Member States, who can make changes before its final
   approval. No one knows how long this could take.

   To summarize, can we imagine what the future might hold for
   collaboration between humankind and AGI and ASI? If we are to believe
   Rich Sutton, professor at the University of Alberta in Canada and a
   recognized specialist in artificial intelligence, humanity must
   inevitably prepare to hand over the reins to AI, as this illustration
   from one of his recent lectures shows.

   My recommendation: the challenges posed by the rapid arrival of AGIs
   and ASIs are among the questions that require quick reflection from
   directors of all organizations, public and private.

   Furthermore, the best AI specialists are often asked, “what is
   humanity’s future in a world where AI performs better than humans?“.
   The common answer? “I don’t know.” But that is no reason not to think
   about it, all together, and very quickly.

Do you want to be informed in real time?

     * Name*
       ____________________ First Name ____________________ Last Name
     * E-mail*
       ____________________
     * RGPD*
       [ ] I accept the privacy policy*
     * Sans titre
          + [ ] I agree to receive FIC news

   Subscribe

   IFRAME: gform_ajax_frame_7

   Back to home

     * Cyber risks
     * Cyber industrial safety
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Cybercrime
     * Operational security
     * Antifraud action
     * Digital identity &amp; KYC
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Digital transition

   Cyber risks
   The Software Defined Vehicle: a growing need for cybersecurity
   27 November 2023

The Software Defined Vehicle: a growing need for cybersecurity

   By Thomas Joos
   In-vehicle cybersecurity is on the verge of major changes that will
   affect all vehicle manufacturers. Vehicles are now more connected than
   ever, and today’s on-board computer is a high-performance ...
   Artificial intelligence: the world is waking up to the risks
   16 November 2023

Artificial intelligence: the world is waking up to the risks

   By Louis Nauges
   The past week was intense in the world of artificial intelligence (AI).
   In the space of a few days, five documents were published by
   prestigious institutions all examining the issue of AI and its ...
   Google’s Play Store promotes secure apps
   10 November 2023

Google’s Play Store promotes secure apps

   Badge now certifies apps that pass cybersecurity test.
   How phishing scams utilize OSINT
   09 November 2023

How phishing scams utilize OSINT

   By Zachary Amos
   Open-source intelligence may be increasing the risks posed by phishing
   scams. Many people aren’t aware of how much may be available about them
   online, but scammers do, and they’re taking ...
   Cyberscore: is France really taking the digital threat seriously?
   07 November 2023

Cyberscore: is France really taking the digital threat seriously?

   By Alexandre Lazarègue, avocat spécialisé en droit du numérique
   The cyberscore, introduced by law on March 3, 2022, aims to do for
   cybersecurity what the nutriscore did for food. However, with its
   limited scope and modest requirements, it is not certain that it ...
   Ransomware: 40 countries make commitment to no longer pay ransoms
   04 November 2023

Ransomware: 40 countries make commitment to no longer pay ransoms

   Alliance led by United States and supported by European Union seeks to
   dry up funding for cybercriminal groups.
   Cyber industrial safety
   State-affiliated groups are main cyber threat to industry
   26 September 2023

State-affiliated groups are main cyber threat to industry

   Energy sector accounts for 39% of cyber incidents in ICS/OT processes.
   Industrial cybersecurity: the need for IT/OT convergence
   06 September 2023

Industrial cybersecurity: the need for IT/OT convergence

   In an interview with Alliancy published on August 29, 2023,
   Jean-François Siquet, OT product manager at Air Liquide, reviewed the
   securing of OT processes required by digitalization. He recognizes ...
   Wallix raises €10.5 million
   17 July 2023

Wallix raises €10.5 million

   The French specialist in privileged access raised 5.5 million euros in
   one night only.
   Despite improvements, OT cybersecurity remains a problem
   04 July 2023

Despite improvements, OT cybersecurity remains a problem

   Fortinet’s latest report shows that 75% of manufacturers have suffered
   at least one intrusion in the last 12 months.
   Critical flaw in Siemens’ energy sector ICS
   19 June 2023

Critical flaw in Siemens’ energy sector ICS

   The vulnerability enables complete takeover of devices and may
   undermine power grids
   Power grids: Mandiant warns about new malware CosmicEnergy
   19 June 2023

Power grids: Mandiant warns about new malware CosmicEnergy

   It is said to be the product of a Russian cybersecurity team, Red Team,
   which develops malicious tools to stress test industrial computer
   systems
   Security and Stability in Cyberspace
   “We are at cyberwar!” Really?
   31 October 2023

“We are at cyberwar!” Really?

   By Stanislas Tarnowski
   What better than a war to mobilize everyone’s energy? Armis presents a
   report on perceptions of cyber warfare and how companies and public
   authorities are preparing to confront this threat. ...
   Will the Moon soon get Internet?
   27 October 2023

Will the Moon soon get Internet?

   By Antoine Meunier
   The new wave of lunar exploration programs that began with the Artemis
   1 mission last year will be very different than the program of the
   1960s. The missions that will take off in the coming years ...
   Why is there so much misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war on X?
   26 October 2023

Why is there so much misinformation about the Israel-Hamas war on X?

   By Fanny Tan
   Since Hamas’s surprise attack against Israel on October 7, 2023, social
   media has been inundated with false and misleading content, especially
   X (formerly Twitter). How can we explain such a ...
   Mysterious Team Bangladesh hacktivists target France
   08 October 2023

Mysterious Team Bangladesh hacktivists target France

   DDoS attacks hit airports and university to protest French presence in
   Niger and Senegal, but also ban on abaya dress in French schools.
   Cyberattack against International Court of Justice in The Hague
   26 September 2023

Cyberattack against International Court of Justice in The Hague

   ICJ provides no details on cyberattack and perpetrator but has been in
   Russia’s cross-hairs for a long time.
   Ursula von der Leyen aims to establish “AI IPCC”
   26 September 2023

Ursula von der Leyen aims to establish “AI IPCC”

   EU Chief wants to bring together scientists, businesses and experts to
   guarantee responsible AI growth on a world level.
   Cybercrime
   Data theft at PC cloud platform Shadow
   19 November 2023

Data theft at PC cloud platform Shadow

   On October 11, 2023, Shadow, the French cloud computing PC specialist,
   admitted it had suffered a data theft, at the end of September 2023.
   The scope of the attack remains unknown but cybercriminals ...
   Qakbot botnet still active
   17 November 2023

Qakbot botnet still active

   International police sting had dismantled infrastructure end of August
   2023.
   Google Cloud resists unprecedented DDoS attack
   16 November 2023

Google Cloud resists unprecedented DDoS attack

   With 398 million requests per second, denial of service attack most
   significant in history, shattering previous record.
   Operation Triangulation reveals vulnerabilities at Apple
   15 November 2023

Operation Triangulation reveals vulnerabilities at Apple

   By Fabrice Deblock
   At its annual Security Analyst Summit (SAS) in late October 2023,
   Kaspersky’s Global Research and Analysis Team (GReAT) revealed a number
   of elements about Operation Triangulation, which ...
   Who unplugged the Mozi botnet?
   13 November 2023

Who unplugged the Mozi botnet?

   Mystery kill switch ended botnet in summer of 2023.
   Reshipping service for goods bought with stolen bankcards falls prey to
   hack
   10 November 2023

Reshipping service for goods bought with stolen bankcards falls prey to hack

   Named SWAT USA Drop Service, cybercriminal enterprise employs 1,200
   people in the United States.
   Operational security
   United States: Joe Biden signs first executive order on AI
   02 November 2023

United States: Joe Biden signs first executive order on AI

   Scope remains limited as Congress unable to pass bipartisan bill on
   issue.
   Can generative AI help break attack chains?
   19 October 2023

Can generative AI help break attack chains?

   By Fabrice Deblock
   With cyberattacks on corporate supply chains on the rise, how can we
   stop suppliers from being the weakest link in an organization’s
   cybersecurity? What could generative AI bring to this ...
   HarfangLab raises 25 million euros
   17 October 2023

HarfangLab raises 25 million euros

   French startup wants to become European leader in cyber threat
   detection and response (EDR) software.
   Yves Bernaert, new CEO of Atos Group
   07 October 2023

Yves Bernaert, new CEO of Atos Group

   Yves Bernaert leaves Accenture management to head Eviden, tech giant’s
   cloud, cybersecurity, supercomputer, and quantum branch.
   Threat detection and AI: Cisco acquires Splunk
   27 September 2023

Threat detection and AI: Cisco acquires Splunk

   Cisco acquisition of data analysis solutions provider for 28 billion
   dollars seeks to harness cybersecurity transformation brought on by AI
   boom.
   Thirty-eight TB of internal Microsoft data left unprotected for three
   years
   25 September 2023

Thirty-eight TB of internal Microsoft data left unprotected for three years

   Computer giant under fire for failing to protect sensitive data.
   Antifraud action
   Europol takes down cyber-equipped betting fraud gang
   21 September 2023

Europol takes down cyber-equipped betting fraud gang

   On September 15, 2023, Europol revealed a sting carried out in March
   2023 against a fraudulent sporting bets gang operating from Spain and
   led by Romanian and Bulgarian nationals. The group stands ...
   Messenger to implement default end-to-end encryption
   05 September 2023

Messenger to implement default end-to-end encryption

   Long-awaited development in wake of illegal abortion controversy in
   Nebraska Fraud prevention.
   50 million dollars in crypto stolen from Curve
   04 August 2023

50 million dollars in crypto stolen from Curve

   White hat hackers are said to be among the attackers of this
   decentralized finance platform.
   ChatGPT already has two evil twins
   01 August 2023

ChatGPT already has two evil twins

   Named “FraudGPT” and “WormGPT”, two chatbots can write fraudulent
   messages and simple malware.
   United States: OpenAI under FTC investigation
   28 July 2023

United States: OpenAI under FTC investigation

   The US Federal Trade Commission is investigating ChatGPT over claims of
   misrepresentation.
   Olympic Games: ANSSI argues for “healthy paranoia”
   13 July 2023

Olympic Games: ANSSI argues for “healthy paranoia”

   Vincent Strubel, head of ANSSI, goes over security measures for Paris
   2024 Games, as well as threats the event faces.
   Digital identity &amp; KYC
   Crypto theft linked to LastPass hack?
   13 September 2023

Crypto theft linked to LastPass hack?

   In late August 2023, cybersecurity researchers published an
   investigation connecting 150 cryptocurrency thefts over the month of
   December 2022, to the data leak suffered by LastPass in November 2022.
   ...
   Finland experiments with digital passports
   11 September 2023

Finland experiments with digital passports

   On August 28, 2023, Finnish authorities launched a pilot project
   allowing Finnish citizens to use a digital version of their passport.
   The experiment, carried out in Helsinki airport in partnership ...
   European Digital Identity Wallet: text makes progress, but
   disagreements persist
   07 July 2023

European Digital Identity Wallet: text makes progress, but disagreements
persist

   The European Commission, the European Parliament, and the Council have
   completed a round of negotiations on this key text for the EU’s digital
   transformation.
   The Catholic Church in France gives priests digital IDs
   19 June 2023

The Catholic Church in France gives priests digital IDs

   It is now possible to verify if priests are authorized to say Mass or
   hear confession, and thus make sure they are not accused of any sexual
   crimes
   New fundraising round for Archipels, which welcomes shareholder IN
   Group
   19 June 2023

New fundraising round for Archipels, which welcomes shareholder IN Group

   Publicly owned French company Archipels develops digital identity
   platform based on blockchain
   DocuSign launches AI-assisted ID verification
   16 May 2023

DocuSign launches AI-assisted ID verification

   Named “ID Verification for EU Qualified”, compliant with European Union
   and United Kingdom regulatory requirements, this solution also relies
   on human approval
   Digital Sovereignty
   TikTok: an application under surveillance
   22 November 2023

TikTok: an application under surveillance

   By Fabrice Deblock
   The Chinese social network is under scrutiny by the American and
   European authorities, who want to know exactly how their citizens’ data
   is being used. This comes at a time when geostrategic ...
   NIS2 on the horizon: companies need to get ready
   08 November 2023

NIS2 on the horizon: companies need to get ready

   By Thomas Joos
   The aim of this new European directive is to strengthen cybersecurity
   in Europe. It is set to replace the NIS1 directive, whose requirements
   are no longer up to the task of improving security, ...
   Digital Services Act implemented for “very large platforms”
   08 October 2023

Digital Services Act implemented for “very large platforms”

   Other services have until February 17, 2024, to comply.
   Transatlantic data: Data Privacy Framework already challenged
   08 October 2023

Transatlantic data: Data Privacy Framework already challenged

   French MP Philippe Latombe files suit with ECJ to cancel Privacy Shield
   successor.
   Tunisia expands scope of national cybersecurity agency
   08 October 2023

Tunisia expands scope of national cybersecurity agency

   ANSI also becomes ANSC.
   Digital Market Act update
   03 October 2023

Digital Market Act update

   Definitive list of “gatekeepers” published on September 6, 2023.
   Digital transition
   How AI is shaking up intellectual property
   23 November 2023

How AI is shaking up intellectual property

   By Pascal Coillet-Matillon
   On August 3, 2023, The New York Times changed the legal notice on its
   website. The US daily now requires its written consent for an AI to use
   its data for training. It’s a sign that generative ...
   [InCyber Forum Montreal] Generative AI: reinventing copyright
   22 November 2023

[InCyber Forum Montreal] Generative AI: reinventing copyright

   By Marion Lefebvre
   Widespread access to generative artificial intelligence is shaking up
   how we work and create. However, the growing use of this technology has
   quickly raised two considerable legal issues: how to ...
   “Ex Machina”: a film that explores the (intimate) relationships between
   humans and machines…and much more
   22 November 2023

“Ex Machina”: a film that explores the (intimate) relationships between
humans and machines…and much more

   By Olivier Parent
   This science fiction movie, directed by Alex Garland, is a “No Exit”
   that examines the possibilities of human empathy toward an artificially
   intelligent system. Moreover, it uses ...
   Corporate cryptocurrency cashflow: balancing flexibility and security
   20 November 2023

Corporate cryptocurrency cashflow: balancing flexibility and security

   By Agathe Laurent
   The rise of cryptocurrencies is being felt in the business world.
   Companies’ adoption of this technology raises specific issues of
   governance and security. Here is a guide to the topic.
   Privacy governance better accounted for throughout the world
   14 November 2023

Privacy governance better accounted for throughout the world

   Yet heads of privacy in corporations still deem resources insufficient.
   OpenAI to fight AI’s “catastrophic risks”
   10 November 2023

OpenAI to fight AI’s “catastrophic risks”

   ChatGPT publisher forms team of experts to assess most serious threats
   associated with advanced AI models.

   InCyber
     * Linkedin
     * Twitter
     * Youtube

   PRIVACY POLICY TERMS AND CONDITIONS COPYRIGHT © 2022 BY FIC, INC. ALL
   RIGHTS RESERVED.
   News and Cyber Community
     * Events
     * Talents
     * Nominees
     * Business
     * Opinion
     * Publications
     * Videos

   Themes
     * Operational security
     * Cyber risks
     * Digital transition
     * Cybercrime
     * Digital Sovereignty
     * Security and Stability in Cyberspace
     * Cyber industrial safety
     * Antifraud action
     * Digital identity &amp; KYC

     * About
     * Sitemap
     * Contact us
     * Data protection
     * Legal Notice and Terms

   Manage cookie consent
   Pour offrir les meilleures expériences, nous utilisons des technologies
   telles que les cookies pour stocker et/ou accéder aux informations des
   appareils. Le fait de consentir à ces technologies nous permettra de
   traiter des données telles que le comportement de navigation ou les ID
   uniques sur ce site. Le fait de ne pas consentir ou de retirer son
   consentement peut avoir un effet négatif sur certaines caractéristiques
   et fonctions.
   Fonctionnel [ ] Fonctionnel Always active
   Le stockage ou l’accès technique est strictement nécessaire dans la
   finalité d’intérêt légitime de permettre l’utilisation d’un service
   spécifique explicitement demandé par l’abonné ou l’utilisateur, ou dans
   le seul but d’effectuer la transmission d’une communication sur un
   réseau de communications électroniques.
   Préférences [ ] Préférences
   Storage or technical access is necessary for the purpose of legitimate
   interest to store preferences that are not requested by the subscriber
   or user.
   Statistiques [ ] Statistiques
   Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé exclusivement à des
   fins statistiques. Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé
   exclusivement dans des finalités statistiques anonymes. En l’absence
   d’une assignation à comparaître, d’une conformité volontaire de la part
   de votre fournisseur d’accès à internet ou d’enregistrements
   supplémentaires provenant d’une tierce partie, les informations
   stockées ou extraites à cette seule fin ne peuvent généralement pas
   être utilisées pour vous identifier.
   Marketing [ ] Marketing
   Le stockage ou l’accès technique est nécessaire pour créer des profils
   d’utilisateurs afin d’envoyer des publicités, ou pour suivre
   l’utilisateur sur un site web ou sur plusieurs sites web ayant des
   finalités marketing similaires.
   Manage options Manage services Manage vendors Read more about these
   purposes
   (BUTTON) Accept (BUTTON) Deny (BUTTON) Voir les préférences (BUTTON)
   Enregistrer les préférences Voir les préférences
   {title} {title} {title}

   (BUTTON) Manage Consent

   Send this to a friend
   ____________________ ____________________ ____________________
   (BUTTON) Send (BUTTON) Cancel
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-30">
<text>
   Skip to main content

Cookies on GOV.UK

   We use some essential cookies to make this website work.

   We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK,
   remember your settings and improve government services.

   We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from
   their services.

   You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie
   settings at any time.

   You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie
   settings at any time.
   (BUTTON) Accept additional cookies (BUTTON) Reject additional cookies
   View cookies
   (BUTTON) Hide this message

   GOV.UK

Navigation menu

   Menu (BUTTON) Menu
   (BUTTON) Search GOV.UK × Search GOV.UK

Services and information

     * Benefits
     * Births, death, marriages and care
     * Business and self-employed
     * Childcare and parenting
     * Citizenship and living in the UK
     * Crime, justice and the law
     * Disabled people
     * Driving and transport
     * Education and learning
     * Employing people
     * Environment and countryside
     * Housing and local services
     * Money and tax
     * Passports, travel and living abroad
     * Visas and immigration
     * Working, jobs and pensions

Government activity

     * Departments
       Departments, agencies and public bodies
     * News
       News stories, speeches, letters and notices
     * Guidance and regulation
       Detailed guidance, regulations and rules
     * Research and statistics
       Reports, analysis and official statistics
     * Policy papers and consultations
       Consultations and strategy
     * Transparency
       Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports

Search

   Search GOV.UK
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search

Popular on GOV.UK

     * Get support with the cost of living
     * Find out about the Energy Bills Support Scheme
     * Find a job
     * Universal Credit account: sign in
     * Check your National Insurance record
     * Check MOT history of a vehicle

    1. Home

   Press release

New research paves way for Artificial Intelligence in education

   Over 500 respondents contributed to the Department for Education’s call
   for evidence on generative AI.

   From:
          Department for Education and The Rt Hon Gillian Keegan MP

   Published
          28 November 2023

   Education professionals, Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology
   specialists, and ed-tech experts are embracing the opportunities
   offered by AI in the education sector, according to the results of the
   government’s first ever Call for Evidence on Artificial Intelligence in
   Education, published today.

   Results show that many respondents recognise the benefits of AI and
   some are already using AI tools to streamline administrative tasks,
   create subject-specific resources and provide personalised support for
   learners with special educational needs and disabilities (SEND).

   Other opportunities cited include the creation of more interactive
   lessons, and additional support for learners for whom English is an
   additional language.

   The respondents range from educators in schools, colleges and
   universities, to research bodies including The Alan Turing Institute
   and Jisc.

   The report will provide a base to inform future policy on AI, and the
   government is already supporting the sector to realise the potential of
   AI in education.

   In October, the government announced an additional investment of up to
   £2 million in Oak National Academy to create new teaching tools using
   AI, followed by a two-day hackathon hosted by the Department for
   Education in collaboration with Faculty AI, the National Institute of
   Teaching, which brought together teachers, leaders, students and
   technology experts to experiment with AI.

   Education Secretary Gillian Keegan said:

     Artificial intelligence is here to stay and it’s already changing
     the way we work and learn. To take advantage of this transformative
     technology, it’s crucial we get our approach to it right.

     It’s heartening that many education professionals are already seeing
     the tangible benefits of AI – something I witnessed myself at our AI
     hackathon earlier this month – while remaining alert to its risks.

     The results of the call for evidence give us a crucial evidence base
     to inform our future work on AI, helping us make the right decisions
     to get the best out of generative AI in a safe and secure way.

   Michael Webb, Director of Technology and Analytics at Jisc, said:

     It’s encouraging to see from this report how many institutions are
     already embracing AI, and how staff are using it in creative ways to
     improve education.

     The findings also help us understand the types of support and
     guidance staff need in order to make the best use of the technology
     going forward. This will enable us to ensure that the right skills
     training is in place, along with guidelines around safe, ethical use
     of AI.

   The Technology in Schools Survey, also published today, sets out how
   technology is used in schools and where they need support to use
   technology effectively. To improve access to technology, the Department
   for Education is investing up to £200 million to upgrade schools that
   fall below Wi-Fi connectivity standards in 55 Education Investment
   Areas, and working with commercial providers to enable all schools to
   have access to a high-speed connection by 2025.

   Morgan Briggs, Policy Research and Strategy Manager at The Alan Turing
   Institute, said:

     The use of generative AI in the education sector is a critically
     important area that deserves significant attention, and we welcome
     the Department for Education’s continued focus on it.

     There are multiple ways in which generative AI could benefit the
     sector – but simultaneously, there are concerns and risks that must
     be addressed. These include dependency on commercial generative AI,
     the possible infringement of rights, the spread of bias and
     misinformation, and plagiarism.

     To realise the full potential of these tools, it will be crucial to
     engage children and young people in the development and deployment
     of generative AI in education.

   Sir Antony Seldon, founder of AI in Education and Headmaster of Epsom
   College, said:

     It is great that the Department for Education is being proactive in
     its approach to artificial intelligence.

     It’s crucial that the government is alive to the risks and
     opportunities AI offers to the education sector, and this Call for
     Evidence, which we were pleased to contribute to, will form an
     essential part of that.

   While respondents are broadly optimistic about the benefits AI could
   bring, they also recognise risks around harmful content, intellectual
   property protection and concerns about accuracy.

   The Government’s AI Regulation White Paper set out the first steps
   towards establishing a regulatory framework for AI, including working
   with UK regulators on how they might need to regulate the technology
   given its cross-cutting nature and impact on various sectors, including
   education.

   The government committed to evaluate and adapt the UK’s regulatory
   approach as AI evolves, and the insights from this call for evidence
   will continue to shape policy in this emerging area.

   Earlier this year, the UK also convened the world’s first AI Safety
   Summit at Bletchley Park, which brought together world leaders,
   businesses, and civil society to build consensus on international
   action to ensure safety at the frontier of AI.

   This drive to harness the potential of AI comes as new analysis is
   published by the government on the impact of AI on Jobs and Training.

   The report illustrates how the education system and employers will need
   to adapt to ensure the workforce has the skills necessary to benefit
   from this emerging technology, which the Department for Education is
   supporting through a number of training opportunities, including skills
   bootcamps, apprenticeships and the Lifelong Learning Entitlement.

   The Department for Education has also today published research
   trialling the use of AI to explore how it could be used to support the
   civil service by providing summaries and analysis. AI was used to
   analyse the 38 Local Skills Improvements Plans as part of a pilot
   project with Faculty AI.

   In spring, the Department for Education will publish the results of the
   hackathon, further supporting the department’s work to understand how
   AI could safely transform the education sector.

Share this page

   Sharing will open the page in a new tab
     * Share on Facebook (opens in new tab)
     * Share on Twitter (opens in new tab)

   Published 28 November 2023

Topical events

     * AI Safety Summit 2023

Is this page useful?

     * Maybe
     * (BUTTON) Yes this page is useful
     * (BUTTON) No this page is not useful

   Thank you for your feedback
   (BUTTON) Report a problem with this page

Help us improve GOV.UK

   Don’t include personal or financial information like your National
   Insurance number or credit card details.
   This field is for robots only. Please leave blank ____________________
   What were you doing?
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   What went wrong?
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Send (BUTTON) Cancel

Help us improve GOV.UK

   To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit
   today. We’ll send you a link to a feedback form. It will take only 2
   minutes to fill in. Don’t worry we won’t send you spam or share your
   email address with anyone.
   Email address ____________________
   (BUTTON) Send me the survey (BUTTON) Cancel

Services and information

     * Benefits
     * Births, death, marriages and care
     * Business and self-employed
     * Childcare and parenting
     * Citizenship and living in the UK
     * Crime, justice and the law
     * Disabled people
     * Driving and transport
     * Education and learning
     * Employing people
     * Environment and countryside
     * Housing and local services
     * Money and tax
     * Passports, travel and living abroad
     * Visas and immigration
     * Working, jobs and pensions

Government activity

     * Departments
     * News
     * Guidance and regulation
     * Research and statistics
     * Policy papers and consultations
     * Transparency
     * How government works
     * Get involved
     __________________________________________________________________

Support links

     * Help
     * Privacy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility statement
     * Contact
     * Terms and conditions
     * Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg
     * Government Digital Service

   All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except
   where otherwise stated
   © Crown copyright
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-31">
<text>
   #Medium alternate

   ____________________

Artificial Intelligence in Media &amp; Entertainment: Redefining the Rules of
Regulation

   Nikolas Christofidis
   Mayflower team

   Nikolas Christofidis
   ·

   Follow
   Published in

   Mayflower team
   ·
   4 min read
   ·
   1 day ago

   --
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   Listen
   (BUTTON)

   Share

   In a world increasingly captivated by the breakthroughs and buzz
   surrounding AI, there lies a cohort of professionals for whom these
   developments are more than just technological trends, but rather
   challenges demanding deep understanding and analysis. Hey! I am Nick —
   a lawyer in an IT company Mayflower. My daily work revolves around the
   laws and regulations governing the realm of technology, but recent news
   about AI has sparked a new curiosity in me. How is artificial
   intelligence reshaping the legal landscape? These questions have
   propelled me to explore AI from a legal perspective, an exploration the
   results of which he is ready to share in this article.

Media and Entertainment

   The media and entertainment industry has witnessed a remarkable
   transformation with the integration of AI. AI has become a powerful
   force in game development, movie production, and advertising,
   revolutionizing creative processes. It is driving strategic investments
   and fulfilling the ever-growing demands of viewers. AI’s impact on this
   industry is substantial. Companies are leveraging AI to enhance their
   operations, improve the consumer experience, and create personalized
   content. For instance, chatbots are used for customer service, voice
   recognition technology enables hands-free control of entertainment
   experiences, and personal assistants like Alexa and Google Assistant
   are integrated into entertainment systems.

   AI also brings efficiency to the media and entertainment sector.
   AI-driven tools enhance 3D animation and character modeling, resulting
   in more realistic visuals. AI-powered music composition aids composers
   in creating original soundtracks. Moreover, AI automates tasks such as
   video editing, proofreading, and ad copy generation, leading to cost
   savings and increased productivity. AI and machine learning have
   revolutionized the capabilities of entertainment companies, enabling
   them to analyze vast amounts of data and deliver personalized content
   recommendations and targeted advertising.

   As this technology advances, we anticipate more companies adopting
   personalized strategies to engage consumers and boost revenue. The
   emergence of AI-generated avatars and virtual news anchors is expected
   to become commonplace, providing lifelike and captivating news
   presentations tailored to different demographics and languages,
   offering an immersive news experience. In the digital age, AI-powered
   content moderation tools will play a crucial role for media platforms.
   Acting as gatekeepers, these tools swiftly detect and filter out
   inappropriate or harmful content, ensuring a safe online environment
   and responsible use of digital media.

   In the realm of live broadcasting, AI automation will take center
   stage. It effortlessly manages real-time tasks like closed captioning
   and enhances live content with dynamic graphics and informative
   overlays for sports events, news programs, and live shows, enhancing
   both the quality and accessibility of the content.

   Lastly, with the advancing deepfake technology, AI becomes
   indispensable for developing sophisticated detection tools. These tools
   are crucial in identifying manipulated or fabricated media content,
   preserving the authenticity and trustworthiness of the media landscape.

   Consequently, the regulation of online content transmission is a
   crucial concern for the media and entertainment industry, given the
   wide array of content available, including offensive material.
   Governing authorities recognize the need for strict control in this
   area, and AI has emerged as a vital tool for detecting and filtering
   objectionable content. AI can effectively determine user demographics,
   such as age and gender, thereby ensuring the appropriate delivery of
   content.

Key legal issues to consider

   Data privacy is a major legal concern regarding the use of AI by
   companies. AI systems require large amounts of data to improve their
   algorithms, so organizations need to ensure that the data they collect
   is handled in accordance with applicable privacy laws. Organizations
   must be transparent with their members about how their data will be
   used and protected and obtain consent to use and share sensitive
   information. It’s important to note that once data is inputted into an
   AI system, it may no longer be confidential and will be subject to the
   system’s terms of use. Therefore, companies should not allow personal,
   confidential, or privileged data to be inputted into an AI system by
   staff or other agents.

   Intellectual property is another legal issue for organizations using
   AI. AI systems can generate new works, so organizations must have the
   necessary rights and licenses to use and distribute these works. It’s
   important to be transparent about the creator of these works.

   Companies must also consider potential tort liability issues that may
   arise from using AI. If an AI system produces harmful results due to
   inaccuracies, negligence, or biases, the organization may be held
   responsible for any resulting damages. Organizations should ensure that
   their AI systems are reliable and accurate, and carefully vet any work
   product that may affect industry or professional standards for accuracy
   and truthfulness.

In conclusion

   In today’s technology-driven world, the impact of AI on our media and
   entertainment experiences cannot be ignored. This vibrant industry,
   constantly shaped by rapid technological advancements and evolving
   consumer desires, has undergone a significant transformation. From the
   emergence of new streaming platforms that revolutionize content
   consumption to a growing emphasis on diversity and representation, the
   future appears bright, brimming with limitless opportunities.

   As we move forward, it becomes crucial for both creators and audiences
   to recognize and appreciate the media’s profound influence in shaping
   our perspectives, values, and cultural landscape. The media carries a
   great responsibility, not only in engaging in ethical discussions and
   promoting inclusiveness but also in providing a platform for sharing
   diverse narratives and facilitating a rich exchange of cross-cultural
   stories and insights. Let us navigate this diverse and dynamic media
   landscape, fully aware of its impact, responsibilities, and the
   multitude of unique stories it has the power to convey within our
   global community.

   #artificialintelligence #privacy #law #technology
   Artificial Intelligence
   Law
   Privacy
   Technology
   Software Development

   --

   --
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   Nikolas Christofidis
   Mayflower team
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

Written by Nikolas Christofidis

   0 Followers
   ·Writer for

   Mayflower team

   Legal Counsel at Mayflower
   (BUTTON) Follow
   (BUTTON)

More from Nikolas Christofidis and Mayflower team

   Bugs backlog automation. RICE for bugs
   glebsarkisov

   glebsarkisov

   in

   Mayflower team

Bugs backlog automation. RICE for bugs

How to make your bugs backlog nicely organized and always relevant

   13 min read·Nov 3

   --

   Head of QA: Year One
   glebsarkisov

   glebsarkisov

   in

   Mayflower team

Head of QA: Year One

Recipe for dealing with crises as a team leader.

   9 min read·Aug 11

   --

   5

   A Way to Effectiveness: Release Quality, Volume and Speed in 1 QA
   Metric
   glebsarkisov

   glebsarkisov

   in

   Mayflower team

A Way to Effectiveness: Release Quality, Volume and Speed in 1 QA Metric

Defect density “with a twist” can help in so many ways

   8 min read·Mar 14

   --

   1

   Controlling Influence Between Groups in A/B Testing — Interrupted Time
   Series Design
   Sergei Sergeev

   Sergei Sergeev

   in

   Mayflower team

Controlling Influence Between Groups in A/B Testing — Interrupted Time Series
Design

A useful and reliable approach to try if you suspect the treatment group
might affect the control group

   17 min read·Jul 12

   --
   See all from Nikolas Christofidis
   See all from Mayflower team

Recommended from Medium

   Turning ChatGPT into Your Personal Assistant: Harnessing AI for
   Everyday Efficiency
   Michael Wilson

   Michael Wilson

   in

   Entrepreneur Power Network

Turning ChatGPT into Your Personal Assistant: Harnessing AI for Everyday
Efficiency

Photo by Mojahid Mottakin on Unsplash

   2 min read·3 days ago

   --

   2

   I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle
   Paul Rose

   Paul Rose

I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle

And it’s perfect for beginners

   6 min read·Oct 18

   --

   203

Lists

   A phone with a tweet on it describing a deepfake video of the Ukrainian
   president, with a labeled fake image in the background

AI Regulation

   6 stories·205 saves
   This One Prompt Will 10X Your Chat GPT Results

ChatGPT prompts

   30 stories·726 saves

ChatGPT

   22 stories·284 saves

Generative AI Recommended Reading

   52 stories·456 saves

   OpenAI and the Biggest Threat in the History of Humanity
   Tomas Pueyo

   Tomas Pueyo

OpenAI and the Biggest Threat in the History of Humanity

We don’t know how to contain or align a FOOMing AGI

   (BUTTON)
   ·18 min read·5 days ago

   --

   45

   Did OpenAI Secretly Create a Brain-Like Intelligence After All?
   Thomas Smith

   Thomas Smith

   in

   The Generator

Did OpenAI Secretly Create a Brain-Like Intelligence After All?

What We Know About Q* and OpenAI’s Potential AGI Breakthrough

   (BUTTON)
   ·5 min read·2 days ago

   --

   29

   This is Why Old Men Prefer Young Girls
   Desiree Peralta

   Desiree Peralta

   in

   Publishous

This is Why Old Men Prefer Young Girls

Spoiler alert: it’s because they are big losers.

   (BUTTON)
   ·7 min read·Nov 20

   --

   276

   NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!
   The Pareto Investor

   The Pareto Investor

NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!

Houston, We Have a Problem!

   (BUTTON)
   ·3 min read·Nov 9

   --

   142
   See more recommendations

   Help

   Status

   About

   Careers

   Blog

   Privacy

   Terms

   Text to speech

   Teams
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-33">
<text>
   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=6035250&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;comscorekw=Life+and+style]
   Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          + View all News
          + World news
          + UK news
          + Climate crisis
          + Ukraine
          + Environment
          + Science
          + Global development
          + Football
          + Tech
          + Business
          + Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          + View all Opinion
          + The Guardian view
          + Columnists
          + Cartoons
          + Opinion videos
          + Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          + View all Sport
          + Football
          + Cricket
          + Rugby union
          + Tennis
          + Cycling
          + F1
          + Golf
          + US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          + View all Culture
          + Books
          + Music
          + TV &amp; radio
          + Art &amp; design
          + Film
          + Games
          + Classical
          + Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          + View all Lifestyle
          + Fashion
          + Food
          + Recipes
          + Love &amp; sex
          + Health &amp; fitness
          + Home &amp; garden
          + Women
          + Men
          + Family
          + Travel
          + Money
     * Search input
       ____________________
       google-search
       Search
       (BUTTON)

     * Support us
     * Print subscriptions

     [ ] Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us
     * The Guardian app
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Pictures
     * Newsletters
     * Today's paper
     * Inside the Guardian
     * The Observer
     * Guardian Weekly
     * Crosswords
     * Wordiply
     * Corrections


     * Facebook
     * Twitter


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us

     * Fashion
     * Food
     * Recipes
     * Love &amp; sex
     * Health &amp; fitness
     * Home &amp; garden
     * Women
     * Men
     * Family
     * Travel
     * Money

   A washing machine full of clothes going round
   [ ]
   ‘It would have terrible trouble reading those little faded, creased
   “care” labels.’ Photograph: Roman Milert/Alamy
   ‘It would have terrible trouble reading those little faded, creased
   “care” labels.’ Photograph: Roman Milert/Alamy
   Notes and queriesLife and style

Readers reply: for which tasks is artificial intelligence least well suited?

   The long-running series in which readers answer other readers’
   questions on subjects ranging from trivial flights of fancy to profound
   scientific and philosophical concepts


   Sun 26 Nov 2023 15.00 CETLast modified on Sun 26 Nov 2023 15.42 CET
     *
     *
     *

   For which tasks is artificial intelligence least well suited? Neil
   Hislop, Reading

   Send new questions to nq@theguardian.com.

Readers reply

   Skilled trades, nursing and nurses aides, surgeons, veterinarians, dog
   groomers, cleaning/janitorial, gardening and yard care, restaurant
   workers, personal care, physical therapy, street sweeping and snow
   removal, trucking and delivery drivers … off the top of my head in just
   a few minutes. Glad I’m a painting contractor/decorator! LizManus

   My husband’s job – maintenance in a residential care home. There are
   many and various repairs: broken power points, broken radiator covers,
   equipment checks, Pat testing, etc. A robot could probably paper a
   wall, but could it cut around light switches? Paint awkward spaces such
   as bannister rails? The jobs that are the least valued as far as wages
   go are the jobs that cannot easily be done remotely or by machines or
   robots – and those held by the same key workers who were so loudly
   praised during the pandemic and taken for granted before and since.
   ClareM8
   Five ways AI could improve the world: ‘We can cure all diseases,
   stabilise our climate, halt poverty’
   Read more

   Teaching – especially in teaching the act of communication in a
   community services context. We teach “active listening”, which includes
   paying attention to your body language, tone and biases, and responding
   to the listener’s. The complexities of human language can be taught in
   theory, but the human touch with regard to those suffering complex
   trauma would be hard to beat. Sadly, I can see people undermining the
   importance of this and replacing it with AI. Natasha2

   Overseeing AI ... woodworm20

   The laundry. I think it would have terrible trouble reading those
   little faded, creased “care” labels, although it could probably be
   trained to sort the colours. travellingran

   I would be interested to see AI unloading my dishwasher. thatoldboke

   AI is particularly unsuited to psychic readings. Leoned

   ChatGPT says: “AI is least well suited for tasks that require emotional
   understanding, creativity and nuanced social interactions.
   Additionally, situations where a deep understanding of human values,
   ethics or complex decision-making based on subjective experiences is
   crucial may pose challenges for AI.” ProfessorSpi

   AI is least suitable for giving advice. Machines can “learn”, but in my
   experience they never understand or answer questions in a way that make
   sense. I don’t understand how businesses can rely on so-called
   chatbots. They cannot replace skilled staff members who have real ears,
   brains and voices. It also scares me that such “bots” are even used for
   providing counselling or therapy. AMD
   Five ways AI might destroy the world: ‘Everyone on Earth could fall
   over dead in the same second’
   Read more

   The current generation of artificial intelligence is very well suited
   to administrative or data-processing tasks. Many of the products are
   actually marketed as assistants or co-pilots, which indicates exactly
   how they are expected to be used. They are not so good at leadership
   roles or making decisions. Sure, they can help interpret data to
   support a human making a decision, but they can’t determine what the
   question is. For now, at least, they are our eager assistants.

   AIs are capable of some tasks typically assumed to be creative, such as
   creating artwork or composing music. But even here they only assist a
   human, giving someone without the ability to draw the ability to create
   a quality artwork. In short, they democratise tasks such as
   programming, writing, drawing or composing, allowing humans with ideas
   to direct the machines to create exactly what they want. They are not –
   currently – capable of the independent thought needed to come up with
   new ideas.

   The natural partner for the AI is the robot. AI technology leads
   robotic technology, meaning that AIs are much more pervasive in the
   digital world than in the real world. Manual tasks outside of a
   controlled environment like a factory or a warehouse are outside the
   capability of robots and therefore AIs. This will certainly change over
   time as robots continue to improve, but the improvements are likely to
   be slower than with the AIs themselves. PMC
   Explore more on these topics
     * Life and style
     * Notes and queries
     * features

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * Fashion
     * Food
     * Recipes
     * Love &amp; sex
     * Health &amp; fitness
     * Home &amp; garden
     * Women
     * Men
     * Family
     * Travel
     * Money

     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us

     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters

     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs

   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-34">
<text>
    #Fifty Plus Advocate » Feed Fifty Plus Advocate » Comments Feed Fifty
   Plus Advocate » Artificial intelligence a concern for discrimination in
   the job market Comments Feed alternate

   [tr?id=338106217191474&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]

     * Home
     * About
          + Mission Statement
          + Full Circulation
          + Reader demographic
     * Latest Stories
     * Caregiver
     * Finance
     * Housing
     * Previous Issues
          + Eastern MA
          + Central MA
     * Contact

   Search ____________________

   26 F
   Westborough
   Wednesday, November 29, 2023
   Fifty Plus Advocate news and events Fifty Plus Advocate news and events
   Fifty Plus Advocate
     * Home
     * About
          + Mission Statement
          + Full Circulation
          + Reader demographic
     * Latest Stories
     * Caregiver
     * Finance
     * Housing
     * Previous Issues
          + Eastern MA
          + Central MA
     * Contact

   Search:
   ____________________ Search

   Home This Month's Features Artificial intelligence a concern for
   discrimination in the job market

     * This Month's Features

Artificial intelligence a concern for discrimination in the job market

   By
   Community Advocate Staff
   -
   November 28, 2023
   0
   Facebook
   Twitter
   Email

   By Sharon Oliver, Contributing Writer
   Artificial intelligence is increasingly playing a role in hiring
   practices today. Artificial intelligence is increasingly playing a role
   in hiring practices today. Artificial intelligence is increasingly
   playing a role in hiring practices today.

   REGION – Artificial Intelligence (AI) is often enjoyed through the lens
   of a movie or television series. Photo manipulation is also a favorite
   pastime on social media platforms, but is the use of artificial
   intelligence becoming a real threat when it comes to jobs, especially
   for older people? Job seekers are already witnesses to technology
   taking over some positions such as cashiers by way of self-checkout
   kiosks.


Computer algorithms instead of human review

   Many employers are using AI and automation for hiring practices these
   days. While it may save on physical demand and wage payouts, such
   technology has also been a detriment to household income. The U.S.
   Justice Department and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
   issued guidance to employers on the usage of algorithmic tools which
   could also have the potential to run afoul of the Americans with
   Disabilities Act.

   Now, there is a growing concern about AI and the inability to find
   employment due to feeling a hiring algorithm had discriminated against
   someone. This can be particularly hard on those who wish to work past
   traditional retirement age in order to save more money. Thankfully,
   there are law offices, such as the Renee Lazar Law Firm in Bedford, who
   assist clients who feel as though they have lost out on a job due to
   this type of discrimination. Assistant Attorney General Kristen Clarke
   for the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division stated, “Algorithmic
   tools should not stand as a barrier for people with disabilities
   seeking access to jobs.”


Legislature introduces bill to help

   Aside from a disability and according to a Gallup poll, a large number
   of people want to work past traditional retirement age. According to
   the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the number of workers 75 and older is
   expected to continue to grow. Earlier this year, as it became more
   noticeable how AI was quickly advancing, several bills were introduced
   before the Massachusetts Legislature’s Joint Committee on Advanced
   Information Technology, the Internet and Cybersecurity.

   Massachusetts State Representative Sean Garballey and Sen. Jason Lewis’
   bill (H 64/S 33) is supported by Caitriona Fitzgerald, deputy director
   at the Electronic Privacy Information Center. Fitzgerald told the
   committee, “The problem we face with AI today is that it’s being used
   broadly in society to replace human decision-making with little to no
   rules about testing these systems for accuracy, effectiveness, or bias.
   And that has real tangible harms.”

   The Garballey and Lewis bill would create a commission to study the use
   of automated decision-making by government agencies and require the
   commission to create a catalog of the AI systems being used across
   state government and make that list public. The commission would also
   advise the legislature on regulations to put in place.

What older workers can offer

   Meanwhile, it is important to remember that AI cannot replace
   sought-after skills that older workers often possess. Skills like
   critical thinking, dedication, dependability, problem-solving, time
   management and discipline still hold great value. Nevertheless, being
   past the age of 50 does not mean the capability to keep up with
   technology is dead and done. CVS Health has developed a Talent Is
   Ageless program that is designed to recruit mature workers and includes
   options like flextime, compressed workweeks, job sharing and
   telecommuting.

   Through its “Discovering You!” training module, older employees have
   the opportunity to further their career through education and help
   inspire colleagues to follow suit, and a quarter of the company’s
   employees are over the age of 50. CVS also has ongoing partnerships
   with organizations that include the American Society on Aging, National
   Caucus and Center on Black Aging, Inc., and the Network of Jewish Human
   Service Agencies. There are approximately 356 CVS stores located
   throughout the state of Massachusetts.


   RELATED CONTENT:

   State’s discrimination commission is a valuable resource for older
   adults (fiftyplusadvocate.com)

   Older workers have a lot to offer employers in a changing workforce
   (fiftyplusadvocate.com)

   Remote work on the rise for many older workers (fiftyplusadvocate.com)


   Post Views: 3

     * TAGS
     * age discrimination
     * Artificial Intelligence
     * Electronic Privacy Information Center

   IFRAME: about:blank

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/like.php?href=https://www.fiftyplusadv
   ocate.com/2023/11/28/artificial-intelligence-a-concern-for-discriminati
   on-in-the-job-market/&amp;layout=button_count&amp;show_faces=false&amp;width=105&amp;ac
   tion=like&amp;colorscheme=light&amp;height=21

   Facebook
   Twitter
   Email

   Previous articleEnjoy winter with the Appalachian Mountain Club
   Next articleDid you fund your estate plan?
   [svg%3E] [ca-author-img.jpg]
   Community Advocate Staff

RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR

   The AMC’s Highland Center in Lincoln, New Hampshire is a year-round
   destination but provides an ideal location for winter activities in the
   White Mountains. The AMC’s Highland Center in Lincoln, New Hampshire is
   a year-round destination but provides an ideal location for winter
   activities in the White Mountains.
   This Month's Features

Enjoy winter with the Appalachian Mountain Club

   A fluffernutter sandwich is a fond childhood memory for many
   Massachusetts natives. A fluffernutter sandwich is a fond childhood
   memory for many Massachusetts natives.
   This Month's Features

Our fondness for fluffernutter is forever

   The quiet reading room showcases the Boston Athenæum’s opulence from an
   earlier time. Photo/Sandi Barrett The quiet reading room showcases the
   Boston Athenæum’s opulence from an earlier time. Photo/Sandi Barrett
   This Month's Features

Boston Athenæum is a hidden gem in the heart of the city

   Three members of Girl Scout Troop 11087 cut the ribbon and officially
   open the Puzzle Hub. (Photo/Evan Walsh) Three members of Girl Scout
   Troop 11087 cut the ribbon and officially open the Puzzle Hub.
   (Photo/Evan Walsh)
   This Month's Features

Puzzle Hub officially opens at Shrewsbury Senior Center

   Tim Wakefield throws one of his famed knuckleballs. Photo/Waldo Jaquith
   Tim Wakefield throws one of his famed knuckleballs. Photo/Waldo Jaquith
   Notable People

Red Sox lose Tim Wakefield, one of their most storied pitchers

   Gene Mackles with some of the games he has designed. Photo/Submitted
   Gene Mackles with some of the games he has designed. Photo/Submitted
   Arts and Entertainment

Award-winning graphic designer now a game creator

   Sign in
   Welcome! Log into your account
   ____________________your username
   ____________________your password
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____
   Forgot your password? Get help
   Password recovery
   Recover your password
   ____________________your email
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)________________
   A password will be e-mailed to you.

Follow Us

Archives

   Archives [Select Month__]

EDITOR PICKS

   Attorney Linda Cammuso Attorney Linda Cammuso

Did you fund your estate plan?

   November 29, 2023
   The AMC’s Highland Center in Lincoln, New Hampshire is a year-round
   destination but provides an ideal location for winter activities in the
   White Mountains. The AMC’s Highland Center in Lincoln, New Hampshire is
   a year-round destination but provides an ideal location for winter
   activities in the White Mountains.

Enjoy winter with the Appalachian Mountain Club

   November 26, 2023
   A fluffernutter sandwich is a fond childhood memory for many
   Massachusetts natives. A fluffernutter sandwich is a fond childhood
   memory for many Massachusetts natives.

Our fondness for fluffernutter is forever

   November 25, 2023

POPULAR POSTS

Descended from not just one – from nine Mayflower passengers

   June 29, 2020
   living wills living wills

7 important things to know about living wills

   May 26, 2010

Ruth Pointer calls Massachusetts home

   March 1, 2020
   © Fifty Plus Advocate. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-35">
<text>
   Skip to main content Skip to log on Skip to search Accessibility at
   CommBank

     *
     * CommBank homepage
     * Newsroom
     *

     * Home
     * Special features
     * Archive

     * Home
     * Special features
     * Archive

   CommBank Search. Dialog start.
   back Search CommBank. Start typing…
   ____________________ Clear search term

Popular searches

     * Travel insurance
     * Foreign exchange calculator
     * Discharge/ Refinance authority form
     * Activate a CommBank card
     * Cardless cash
     * Interest rates &amp; fees

     * Help &amp; support
     * Locate us
     * Contact us

   Woman using phone

   29 November 2023

CBA recognised in global rankings for its maturity in using Artificial
Intelligence

   A leading global index this month ranked CBA as the #1 Asia Pacific
   bank and #6 bank globally for maturity in using AI.
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Commonwealth Bank has been named the #1 Asia Pacific bank and ranked
   sixth globally in the Evident AI Index for banks, a global standard
   benchmark of Artificial Intelligence (AI) maturity.

   CBA was also ranked joint #1 globally for its responsible AI
   leadership.

   The Index was released in November 2023 and covers 50 of the largest
   banks in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific, and assesses four key
   areas (talent, innovation, leadership and transparency).

Related articles

     * Commonwealth Bank update on reimagined banking services
     * 'CommBank Yello' becomes one of Australia’s largest customer
       recognition programs
     * Commonwealth Bank reimagines products and services for Business
       Banking customers

   Gavin Munroe, CBA Group Chief Information Officer, said: “It’s the
   first time the index has featured banks from Asia Pacific. By taking a
   leadership role in AI we’re committed to bringing AI safely and
   ethically to make things better for customers and our people, as well
   as communities across Australia.”

   Alexandra Mousavizadeh, Co-Founder and CEO of Evident, said: “Given the
   pace of AI adoption, it’s vital that we’re able to track AI maturity
   across the banking sector, helping institutions harness the power of
   emerging technologies with openness and transparency, and sharing best
   practice so that all banks can remain competitive in the AI age.

   “We congratulate CommBank for performing so strongly across both the
   Leadership and Transparency pillars. The institution has been an
   industry leader in how it has coordinated and communicated its AI
   strategy.”

   AI has been a core strategic focus for CBA for a number of years.

   Mr Munroe said: “Growing our use of AI responsibly has been a core
   strategic focus and it is pleasing to see us ranking joint first
   globally for responsible AI leadership.

   “With recent advances in generative AI promising significant uplifts in
   improving customer experience and simplifying core operational
   processes, it is vital we continue to scale these approaches in a safe
   and responsible way."

Other relevant AI developments at CBA

     * In a world-first, CBA recently shared its AI model to help reduce
       technology-facilitated abuse internationally, for no cost.
     * CBA is one of six organisations that has been working with the
       government since 2019 to better drive the adoption of ethical and
       responsible AI in Australia.
     * The Bank entered into a strategic partnership with global AI leader
       H2O.ai in 2021.

About Evident AI Index Rankings

     * Since launching in January 2023, the Evident AI Index has quickly
       become established as the leading independent source of data and
       insight on AI adoption across the banking industry.
     * The Evident AI Index assesses the AI maturity of 50 of the world’s
       largest banks, with a minimum eligibility criterion of USD 200
       billion in total assets.
     * It combines extensive manual research, automated data capture from
       public sources, consultation across Evident’s network of AI
       experts, and ongoing dialogue with the featured banks.
     * Drawing from millions of public data points spanning 115 individual
       indicators, it ranks each bank across four key capability areas –
       Talent, Innovation, Leadership and Transparency.
     * Find out more.

   Go to CBA Newsroom for the latest news and announcements from
   Commonwealth Bank.

   Tags
     * Innovation
     * Artificial intelligence
     * Media release

     *

Get in touch
       Journalists can email media@cba.com.au or call us on (02) 9118 6919
     *

Subscribe
       Subscribe to receive the latest CBA media releases and
       announcements, or unsubscribe to stop receiving emails from CBA
       Newsroom
     *

Follow us on X
       Follow Commonwealth Bank news via @CBANewsroom

   Back to top

QUICK LINKS

     * Security &amp; scams
     * Help &amp; support
     * Financial assistance
     * Complaints &amp; compliments
     * Payment services availability

ABOUT US

     * About CommBank
     * Careers at CommBank
     * Sustainability
     * Newsroom
     * Investor centre

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

     * Accessibility
     * Important documents
     * Banking Code of Practice
     * Cookies policy
     * Privacy statement

FOLLOW US

     * [socialTwitter20.svg] Twitter
     * [socialFacebook20.svg] Facebook
     * [socialLinkedin20.svg] LinkedIn
     * [socialYoutube20.svg] YouTube
     * [socialInstagram20.svg] Instagram


   CommBank acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the lands across
   Australia as the continuing custodians of Country and Culture. We pay
   our respect to First Nations peoples and their Elders, past and
   present.


   ©2023 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ABN 48 123 123 124 AFSL and
   Australian credit licence 234945

   Commonwealth Bank [cba-diamond.gif]
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-36">
<text>
   #The Tech Report » Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Jobs: Assessing the
   Impact on Wages and Employment Comments Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NKVXN63

   [svg%3E] [logo-techreport.7ba8bd.svg]
     * News
          + Main menu
            News
          + Tech News
          + Crypto News
     * Software
          + Main menu
            Software
          + Spy Apps
               o Main menu
                 Spy Apps
               o Best Spy Apps
                    # Main menu
                      Best Spy Apps
                    # Best Spy Apps for Android
                    # Best Spy Apps for iPhone
               o Social Media Spy Apps
                    # Main menu
                      Social Media Spy Apps
                    # Best Facebook Spy Apps
                    # Best Tinder Spy Apps
                    # Best Instagram Spy Apps
                    # Best WhatsApp Spy Apps
                    # Best Snapchat Spy Apps
                    # Best Telegram Spy Apps
                    # Best TikTok Spy Apps
               o Spy App Reviews
                    # Main menu
                      Spy App Reviews
                    # mSpy Review
                    # uMobix Review
                    # EyeZy Review
                    # XNSPY Review
                    # Spyic Review
                    # Spyera Review
               o Catch Cheater
                    # Main menu
                      Catch Cheater
                    # Best Cheating Spouse Tracker Apps
                    # Top Boyfriend Spy Apps
                    # Signs Your Girlfriend is Cheating
               o Phone Spy
                    # Main menu
                      Phone Spy
                    # Best Phone Spy Apps
                    # Best Girlfiend Spy Apps
                    # Best Boyfriend Spy Apps
                    # Best Text Message Spy Apps
               o Parent Control
                    # Main menu
                      Parent Control
                    # Best Parental Control Apps
                    # Best Parental Control Apps in the UK
                    # Best Parental Control Apps in Australia
                    # Best Parental Control Apps in Germany
                    # Facebook Parental Controls
                    # Best Parental Control Apps for iPhone and iPad
                    # Best Parental Control Apps for Android Devices
               o Track Location
                    # Main menu
                      Track Location
                    # Best Geofencing Apps
                    # Best Secret GPS Trackers
                    # Best Boyfriend Phone Trackers
               o Keyloggers / Recording
                    # Main menu
                      Keyloggers / Recording
                    # Best Keylogger Apps
                    # The Best Android Keylogger Apps
                    # The Best iPhone Keylogger Apps
                    # Best Secret Screen Recorder Apps
               o Spy Tips and Tricks
                    # Main menu
                      Spy Tips and Tricks
                    # How to Spy on Devices Connected to Your Wi-Fi
          + VPNs
               o Main menu
                 VPNs
               o What is a VPN?
               o How to Hide IP Address
               o Best VPN Service
               o Best VPN for Business
               o Best VPN Apps
                    # Main menu
                      Best VPN Apps
                    # Best VPN for Android
                    # Best VPN for iPhone
                    # Best Linux VPN
                    # Best VPN for Firestick
               o Fastest VPN Providers
               o Best Cheap VPNs
               o Free VPN
                    # Main menu
                      Free VPN
                    # Best Free VPN Services
                    # Best Free VPNs According to Reddit
                    # Free VPNs for Android
                    # Free VPNs for iPhone
                    # Free VPNs for Netflix
                    # Free VPNs for Torrenting
                    # Free VPNs Chrome Extensions
                    # Free VPNs for Firestick
                    # VPNs with Free Trials
               o Best Netflix VPN
               o Best Gaming VPN
               o Best Gambling VPNs
               o Best VPN Reddit
               o The Best VPN for Streaming
               o Best Twitter VPN
               o Best Betfair VPNs
               o Best Porn VPN
               o VPN Reviews
                    # Main menu
                      VPN Reviews
                    # NordVPN Review
                    # ExpressVPN Review
                    # Surfshark VPN Review
                    # CyberGhost VPN Review
                    # Ivacy VPN Review
                    # PureVPN Review
                    # VyprVPN Review
                    # ExpressVPN Vs NordVPN
               o Best VPN by Country
                    # Main menu
                      Best VPN by Country
                    # Best VPNs for UK
                    # Best VPNs for Canada
                    # Best VPNs for Australia
                    # Best VPNs for Singapore
                    # Best VPNs for UAE
                    # Best VPNs in China
                    # Best VPNs for Australia
               o Guides
                    # Main menu
                      Guides
                    # How Do I Hide My IP Address?
                    # How to Watch DStv online
                    # How To Watch NRL 2023 Online
          + VoIP Services
               o Main menu
                 VoIP Services
               o What is VoIP? The Definitive Guide to VoIP
               o Wiki
                    # Main menu
                      Wiki
                    # VoIP vs Landline – Everything You Need to Know
                    # What is a VoIP Number &amp; How Does it Work?
                    # What is a Virtual Phone System &amp; How Does It Work?
                    # How to Get a VoIP Number
                    # How to Choose a VoIP Provider
                    # What is ISDN?
                    # Call Center Technology 101
                    # VoIP Security Guide
                    # VoIP Hacking: How to Protect Your VoIP Phone
                    # VoIP Statistics and Trends
               o Best VoIP Services
               o Best VoIP Service for Home
               o Cheapest VoIP Phone Service Providers
               o Free VoIP Phone Number Solutions
               o Best VoIP Mobile Apps
               o VoIP for Business
                    # Main menu
                      VoIP for Business
                    # Best Virtual Phone Service Providers for Business
                    # Best VoIP for Small Business
                    # Best VoIP Business Phone Systems
                    # Best Hosted VoIP Providers
               o By Country
                    # Main menu
                      By Country
                    # Best US Virtual Phone Number Provider
                    # Best Unlimited VoIP UK
                    # Best Virtual Phone Number UK Providers
                    # Best VoIP Providers in Canada
                    # Best VoIP Australia
                    # The Best VoIP Apps for Iran
          + Password Managers
               o Main menu
                 Password Managers
               o Best Password Managers
               o Best Password Managers for Business
               o Best Password Manager in the UK
               o Best Password Managers in India
               o The Best Password Manager for iPhone
               o The Best Password Manager Reddit Users Recommend
               o The Best Password Manager for Windows
               o Keeper Password Manager Review
          + Business Software
               o Main menu
                 Business Software
               o Accounting Software
                    # Main menu
                      Accounting Software
                    # Best Accounting Software
                    # Best Self-Employment Accounting Software
                    # Best Cloud-Based Accounting Software
                    # Best Mac Accounting Software
                    # The Best Payroll Software for the UK
                    # Best Accounting Software Australia
               o Project Management
                    # Main menu
                      Project Management
                    # The Best Workflow Management Software
                    # Best Project Management Software
                    # Monday.com Review
                    # The Best Gantt Chart Software Solutions
                    # The Best Free Project Management Software
               o Employee Monitoring
                    # Main menu
                      Employee Monitoring
                    # Best Employee Tracking Software
                    # Best Employee Monitoring Software For Mac
                    # Best Employee Time Tracking Software
                    # Best Employee Time Tracking Software for Windows
               o Hosting
                    # Main menu
                      Hosting
                    # The Best WordPress Hosting Services
                    # The Fastest WordPress Hosting You Can Get
                    # Best Cheap WordPress Hosting Services
                    # The Best Website Hosting Services
               o CRM
                    # Main menu
                      CRM
                    # What is CRM?
                    # Best CRM Software
                    # CRM for Small Businesses in the UK
                    # CRM Marketing Automation Software
                    # Real Estate CRM Software
                    # CRM for Startups
                    # Recruitment CRM Software
                    # Best Free CRM Software
                    # Best CRM for Non Profits
                    # Construction CRM Software
                    # Automotive CRM Software
                    # Best CRM Insurance Software
                    # Best CRMs for E-Commerce Reviewed
                    # Best Free CRMs for Startups
               o Background Check Services
                    # Main menu
                      Background Check Services
                    # Best Background Check Software
                    # Best Tenant Background Check Sites
               o Hiring Software
                    # Main menu
                      Hiring Software
                    # Best EOR Services for International Hiring
                    # Best Applicant Tracking Systems
                    # The Best Applicant Tracking Systems for Small
                      Businesses
                    # The Best Recruitment Software
          + Antivirus
               o Main menu
                 Antivirus
               o Best Antivirus Software
               o Best Antivirus for Windows
               o Best Antivirus for Mac
               o Best Antivirus for Android
               o Best Antivirus for Servers
               o How to Remove Spyware
               o Best Spyware Detectors
               o Best by Country
                    # Main menu
                      Best by Country
                    # Best Antivirus in Singapore
                    # Best Antivirus in Indonesia
                    # Best Antivirus in Philippines
                    # Best Antivirus in UK
                    # Best Antivirus in Canada
                    # Best Antivirus in Australia
          + Artificial Intelligence
               o Main menu
                 Artificial Intelligence
               o A Full Jasper.ai Review
               o An In-Depth Copy AI Review
               o Best AI Writing Tools
               o Best AI Copywriting Tools
     * Gadgets
          + Main menu
            Gadgets
          + Gadget Digest
          + Reviews
          + Hardware
               o Main menu
                 Hardware
               o CPUs
               o Graphics
               o Motherboards
               o Storage
     * Gambling
          + Main menu
            Gambling
          + Crypto Gambling
               o Main menu
                 Crypto Gambling
               o Best Crypto Casino Sites
               o Best Bitcoin Gambling Sites
               o Best Ethereum Casino Sites
          + Sports Betting
               o Main menu
                 Sports Betting
               o Best Sportsbooks
               o Best Offshore Sportsbooks
               o Best Sportsbooks by Reddit
          + Casino
               o Main menu
                 Casino
               o Best Offshore Casinos
               o Best Anonymous Casinos
               o Best Casino Apps for Real Money
               o Best Online Blackjack Casinos
          + By Country
               o Main menu
                 By Country
               o USA
                    # Main menu
                      USA
                    # Best Sportsbooks
                    # Best Offshore Sportsbooks
                    # Best Offshore Casinos
                    # Best Anonymous Online Casinos
                    # Best Casino Apps For Real Money
                    # Best Online Blackjack Casinos
                    # Best Live Blackjack Online Casinos
                    # Reddit Sportsbooks
                    # California Sports Betting
                    # Florida Sports Betting
                    # Florida Online Gambling
                    # Missouri Online Casinos
                    # California Online Casinos
                    # New York Online Casinos
               o UK
                    # Main menu
                      UK
                    # Non Gamstop Casino Sites
                    # Gambling Sites Not on Gamstop
               o Canada
                    # Main menu
                      Canada
                    # Crypto Casinos
               o Malaysia
                    # Main menu
                      Malaysia
                    # Online Casino Malaysia
                    # Malaysia Online Gambling Sites
                    # Malaysia Sports Betting Sites
               o Indonesia
                    # Main menu
                      Indonesia
                    # Indonesia Online Gambling Sites
                    # Online Casino Indonesia
                    # Indonesia Sports Betting Sites
               o Singapore
                    # Main menu
                      Singapore
                    # Singapore Online Gamblling Sites
                    # Singapore Online Casinos
                    # Singapore Sports Betting
               o Philippines
                    # Main menu
                      Philippines
                    # Online Gambling Sites Philippines
                    # Philippines Online Casino
                    # Philippines Sports Betting
               o South Korea
                    # Main menu
                      South Korea
                    # South Korea Online Gambling Sites
                    # Online Casino South Korea
               o India
                    # Main menu
                      India
                    # India Online Gambling Sites
                    # Online Casino India
                    # India Sports Betting Sites
     * Crypto
          + Main menu
            Crypto
          + Best Crypto to Buy Now
               o Main menu
                 Best Crypto to Buy Now
               o Best Crypto Presales
               o Best Meme Coins
               o Best Crypto to Buy Now
               o Next Crypto to Explode
               o Best Crypto to Hold Long Term
          + Best Altcoins
               o Main menu
                 Best Altcoins
               o Best Altcoins to Buy
               o Buy Spongebob Token
               o Buy AiDoge
               o Buy Launchpad XYZ
               o Buy yPredict
               o Buy NoMeme
               o Buy Wall Street Memes Token
          + New Cryptos
               o Main menu
                 New Cryptos
               o New Cryptocurrencies to Invest
               o Best Crypto ICOs
               o New Upcoming Binance Listings
               o New Upcoming Coinbase Listings
          + Price Predictions
               o Main menu
                 Price Predictions
               o Ethereum Price Prediction
               o Arb Doge Price Prediction
               o Pepe Memecoin Price Prediction
               o Ecoterra Price Prediction
               o DeeLance Price Prediction
               o Wall Street Memes Price Prediction
          + Crypto Robots
               o Main menu
                 Crypto Robots
               o Best Bitcoin Robots
               o Bitcode Method Review
               o Bitcoin 360 AI Review
               o Qumas AI Review
               o BitiCodes Review
               o Immediate Connect Review
               o Immediate Edge Review
               o Immediate Fortune Review
          + How to Buy Crypto
               o Main menu
                 How to Buy Crypto
               o Buy Bitcoin with eToro
               o Buy Dogecoin with eToro
     * Statistics
          + Main menu
            Statistics
          + Social Media
               o Main menu
                 Social Media
               o Social Media Addiction Statistics
               o Tinder Statistics
               o TikTok Statistics
               o Snapchat Statistics
               o OnlyFans Statistics
               o Twitter Statistics
               o Facebook Messenger Statistics
          + Apps
               o Main menu
                 Apps
               o Spotify Statistics
               o Slack Statistics
               o Dating Apps Statistics
               o Messaging App Statistics
               o Mobile Health Technology Statistics
               o Discord Statistics
               o Uber Statistics
               o Uber Eats Statistics
               o Zoom Statistics
          + Software
               o Main menu
                 Software
               o CRM Statistics
          + AI Statistics
               o Main menu
                 AI Statistics
               o Artificial Intelligence Adoption Statistics
          + Business
               o Main menu
                 Business
               o Workplace Violence Statistics
               o Business Intelligence Statistics
               o BYOD Statistics and Facts
               o Insider Threat Statistics
               o Digital Marketing Statistics
               o SMS Marketing Statistics
          + Ecommerce
               o Main menu
                 Ecommerce
               o Online Shopping Statistics
               o Shopify Statistics
               o Amazon Statistics
          + Entertainment
               o Main menu
                 Entertainment
               o Netflix Statistics
               o Cable TV Subscribers Statistics
               o TV Viewership Statistics
               o Video Statistics
          + Internet Security
               o Main menu
                 Internet Security
               o Cybersecurity and Cybercrime Statistics
               o Ransomware Statistics
               o Cyberbullying Statistics
               o Antivirus Statistics
               o Identity Theft Statistics
          + Blockchain
               o Main menu
                 Blockchain
               o Blockchain Statistics
               o Cryptocurrency Statistics
          + Metaverse Statistics
          + Virtual Reality Statistics
          + Online Gaming Statistics
          + Tesla Statistics
          + IoT Statistics

   (BUTTON) English English English
   Countries
   Close
   English English English Portuguese Portuguese Português (PT/BR) 한국어
   Korean 한국어 Korean 한국어
   (BUTTON) Search Icon Search Icon
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
   Home Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Jobs: Assessing the Impact on
   Wages and Employment
   News

Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Jobs: Assessing the Impact on Wages and
Employment

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_199_1688632029-250x250.jpg]
   Damien Fisher Crypto Journalist Author expertise Author expertise
   Updated: November 28, 2023 | 3:41 PM
   Disclosure Disclosure
   Disclosure
   In our content, we occasionally include affiliate links. Should you
   click on these links, we may earn a commission, though this incurs no
   additional cost to you. Your use of this website signifies your
   acceptance of our terms and conditions as well as our privacy policy.
   title title Share
   Facebook Twitter Linkedin Telegram E-mail

   The European Central Bank (ECB) recently released research on the
   complex relationship between AI adoption and its potential impact on
   wages and employment. Contrary to fears about job displacement, the
   study suggests that, at least for now, AI is more likely to affect
   wages than jobs.

   The research highlights the swift integration of artificial
   intelligence into various industries, which has led to significant
   investments by businesses.

AI’s Rapid Rise: A Double-Edged Sword

   This trend has sparked discussion among economists about the
   consequences for the labor market and has fueled concerns among the
   general public about the future of their jobs.

   Contrary to popular fears, the ECB study, which analyzed a sample of 16
   European countries, reveals that the adoption of AI has, so far, led to
   a net creation of jobs.

   Sectors exposed to AI have witnessed an increase in employment share,
   with a notable impact on the younger demographic and highly skilled
   workers. The findings challenge the notion that AI is an outright job
   destroyer, at least in the short term.

   The study shows that low and medium-skill jobs have remained largely
   unaffected by the adoption of AI. In contrast, highly skilled positions
   have experienced a considerable boost in demand.

   While AI’s impact on job creation is noteworthy, the research also
   sheds light on wage dynamics.

   The study indicates “neutral to slightly negative impacts” on earnings
   due to AI adoption. This suggests that while jobs may be growing, the
   wages associated with these positions might face challenges or
   stagnation.

   The paper cautions that these findings don’t serve as a complete
   exoneration of AI’s influence on the labor market.

   The research notes that AI-enabled technologies are continuously
   evolving and being integrated into various sectors. The full extent of
   their impact on employment, wages, and, consequently, on overall
   economic growth and equality is yet to be fully realized.

   The cautious tone of the paper suggests that ongoing developments in AI
   may have far-reaching consequences that are not fully captured in the
   current findings.

Future Outlook: Uncharted Territory with Ongoing Developments

   In light of historical and technological shifts, the research draws
   attention to the distinctive nature of AI’s impact compared to previous
   waves of technology. This is unlike earlier instances of
   computerization that decreased the relative share of employment for
   medium-skilled workers.

   The current scenario indicates a more nuanced and varied impact across
   skill levels. The paper concludes by emphasizing that the journey into
   the era of AI is still unfolding.

   With AI technologies continuously advancing and being adopted at an
   unprecedented pace, the full spectrum of their effects on employment
   and wages has yet to materialize.

   The research serves as a timely reminder that the future trajectory of
   AI’s impact on the workforce remains an evolving narrative, with
   implications for economic growth and societal equality yet to fully
   manifest.

   The ECB research offers valuable insights into the complex interplay
   between AI, wages, and employment. While job creation seems to be a
   positive outcome of AI adoption, we need ongoing attention and
   adaptable policies to handle AI’s evolving impact.

Question &amp; Answers (0)

   Have a question? Our panel of experts will answer your queries. Post my
   Question

Leave a Comment

Write a Review

   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

   Your Question*
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   Name* ______________________________

   Email Address* ______________________________

   ______________________________

   Post my Question

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   Share this page
   title title Share
   Facebook Twitter Linkedin Telegram E-mail
   Tags
   artificial intelligenceEurope

Question &amp; Answers (0)

   Have a question? Our panel of experts will answer your queries. Post my
   Question

Leave a Comment

Write a Review

   Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

   Your Question*
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________

   Name* ______________________________

   Email Address* ______________________________

   ______________________________

   Post my Question

   Δ
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   _____________________________________________
   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_199_1688632029-250x250.jpg]

Damien Fisher Crypto Journalist

Damien Fisher Crypto Journalist

   Damien Fisher is a seasoned crypto news writer with a relentless
   curiosity for blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies. With a career
   spanning over a decade, Damien has solidified his position as a trusted
   authority in the industry. Besides contributing insightful articles to
   TechReport, he also lends his expertise to reputable sites like Invezz
   and CryptoCoin.News. Through his work, Damien continues to provide
   valuable information to readers, keeping them informed about the latest
   developments and trends in the ever-evolving world of cryptocurrencies.
   His passion for the subject and dedication to accuracy make him a
   standout figure in the crypto news space.
   View all posts by Damien Fisher

News

Google Strikes Deal with Canada to Avert News Blackout

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 30, 2023

Custom OpenAI Chatbots Leak Secrets, Pose Privacy Threats

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 29, 2023

Google’s Image Search Results Flooded With AI-Generated Images

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 29, 2023

Amazon Launches Q, a Sophisticated AI Chatbot for AWS Customers

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 29, 2023

Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Jobs: Assessing the Impact on Wages and
Employment

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_199_1688632029-250x250.jpg]
   Damien Fisher
   November 28, 2023

Binance And Its Founder CZ Pay Heavily For Challenging America’s Financial
And Political Status Quo

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_199_1688632029-250x250.jpg]
   Damien Fisher
   November 28, 2023

Some Crypto Pioneers Steer Clear As The Spot Bitcoin Race Intensifies

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_199_1688632029-250x250.jpg]
   Damien Fisher
   November 28, 2023

YouTube Launches Playables — An Exclusive Gaming Experience For Premium
Subscribers

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 28, 2023

Most Popular News

   1 Google Strikes Deal with Canada to Avert News Blackout
   2 Custom OpenAI Chatbots Leak Secrets, Pose Privacy Threats
   3 Top Crypto Gainers on November 29 – SEI, LUNC, And RUNE
   4 90+ Key Password Breach Statistics in 2023
   5 Must Know Instagram Reels Statistics (2023 Figures)

Latest News

   Google Strikes Deal with Canada to Avert News Blackout Google Strikes
   Deal with Canada to Avert News Blackout
   News

Google Strikes Deal with Canada to Avert News Blackout

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 30, 2023
   Custom OpenAI Chatbots Leak Secrets, Pose Privacy Threats Custom OpenAI
   Chatbots Leak Secrets, Pose Privacy Threats
   News

Custom OpenAI Chatbots Leak Secrets, Pose Privacy Threats

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 29, 2023

   In a concerning development, initiatives taken by OpenAI to allow users
   to develop their personalized versions of the generative AI tool,
   ChatGPT, have taken a dark turn. Known as ‘GPTs’,...
   Crypto Crypto
   Crypto News

Top Crypto Gainers on November 29 – SEI, LUNC, And RUNE

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_201_1688961938-250x250.jpeg]
   Nick Dunn
   November 29, 2023

   The crypto market has arguably posted its best figures this week today,
   with its total market cap value at $1.5 trillion. Bitcoin has moved
   above $38,000 in the past 24 hours,...
   General Password Breach Statistics General Password Breach Statistics
   Statistics

90+ Key Password Breach Statistics in 2023

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_198_1686882508-250x250.jpeg]
   Susan Laborde
   November 29, 2023
   What are Instagram Reels What are Instagram Reels
   Statistics

Must Know Instagram Reels Statistics (2023 Figures)

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_195_1686882066-250x250.jpeg]
   Jeff Beckman
   November 29, 2023
   Seasonal Traditions Seasonal Traditions
   Statistics

Seasonal Traditions in Numbers: Statistical Insights into Christmas and New
Year’s Celebrations

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_188_1683623235-250x250.jpg]
   Kate Sukhanova
   November 29, 2023
   Google's Image Search Results Flooded With AI-Generated Images Google's
   Image Search Results Flooded With AI-Generated Images
   News

Google’s Image Search Results Flooded With AI-Generated Images

   [svg%3E] [avatar_user_154_1669717118-250x250.jpg]
   Krishi Chowdhary
   November 29, 2023

   [svg%3E] [logo-footer-techreport.0ab8b1.svg]
     * Cybersecurity
          + Top VPN Services
          + Top Antivirus Softwares
          + Top Spyware Detectors
          + Top Password Managers
     * Comms &amp; Collab
          + Top VoIP Services
          + Top Project Management Softwares
          + Top Employee Tracking Softwares
          + Top CRM Softwares
     * Web &amp; Cloud Services
          + Top WordPress Hosting Services
          + Top Accounting Softwares
     * Cryptocurrency
          + Best Crypto to Buy Now
          + New Cryptocurrencies to Invest
          + Best Meme Coins to Buy Now
          + Best Low Cap Crypto Gems
     * Popular Guides
          + How to Hide IP Adress
          + What is VoIP? The Definitive Guide
          + How to Get a VoIP Number
          + How to Buy Bitcoin

   REGULATION &amp; HIGH RISK INVESTMENT WARNING: Trading Forex, CFDs and
   Cryptocurrencies is highly speculative, carries a level of risk and may
   not be suitable for all investors. You may lose some or all of your
   invested capital, therefore you should not speculate with capital that
   you cannot afford to lose. The content on this site should not be
   considered investment advice. Investing is speculative. When investing
   your capital is at risk. Please note that we do receive advertising
   fees for directing users to open an account with the
   brokers/advertisers and/or for driving traffic to the advertiser
   website.

   Crypto promotions on this site do not comply with the UK Financial
   Promotions Regime and is not intended for UK consumers.

   © Copyright 2023 Techreport. All Rights Reserved.
     * Contact
     * Privacy Policy
     * About Us

   Scroll Up

   We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our
   website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are
   happy with it.OkReject
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-37">
<text>
   Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes ofwebsite
   accessibility

   Thu, 30 Nov 2023 13:32:48 GMT (1701351168481)
   e6afd0f58cc0cf291735ff36ecf13e7666c59eb2
   a69eb7641296b6ccfbf3267473a37f1f8390f848
   (BUTTON)
   site logo site logo
     * News
     * Weather
     * I-Team
     * Sports
     * Game Center
     * Watch

   Now

   26

   Thu

   45

   Fri

   37
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) search icon
   (BUTTON) user account icon
   ____________________ (BUTTON) search icon
   CBS logo
   Close Alert

Unmasking AI: Uncovering biases and the pursuit of unbiased artificial
intelligence
     __________________________________________________________________

   by JANAE BOWENS | The National Desk
   Wed, November 29th 2023, 3:04 AM UTC
   UserWay icon for accessibility widget
   FILE - The ChatGPT app is seen on an iPhone in New York, Thursday, May
   18, 2023. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, file)
   FILE - The OpenAI logo is seen on a mobile phone in front of a computer
   screen which displays output from ChatGPT, Tuesday, March 21, 2023, in
   Boston. (AP Photo/Michael Dwyer, File)
   Image icon
   3
   VIEW ALL PHOTOS
   View All Photos
   FILE - The ChatGPT app is seen on an iPhone in New York, Thursday, May
   18, 2023. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, file)
   Facebook Share Icon Twitter Share Icon Email Share Icon

   WASHINGTON (TND) — Artificial intelligence (AI) use is not slowing
   down, but there are concerns that the technology is giving biased
   information.

   When asked if ChatGPT, a generative AI app, was biased, the app
   responded in seconds and said it was not.

     No, I don't have personal opinions or biases. I generate responses
     based on patterns learned from diverse data. If you have concerns
     about biased outputs, feel free to point them out, and I'll do my
     best to provide balanced information.

   Dr. Lisa Palmer, a college professor and artificial intelligence
   business strategist who designs business models, processes, and
   services, said that data apps like ChaptGPT use might not be so
   diverse.

   "The data set that they have been trained on is largely coming from
   publicly scraped data. As a result of that, that publicly scraped data,
   much of it is news and news content, etc. and we do tend to have more
   left-leaning news content that was scraped than right-leaning,
   conservative content," Palmer explained. "And so by the sheer virtue of
   that the responses that you get from these tools will tend to be
   left-leaning because the dataset, one of the key elements is
   left-leaning. "

   Research from the United Kingdom, China, the University of Washington,
   and Carnegie Mellon University confirms Palmer's assessment.

     The artificial intelligence platform ChatGPT shows a significant and
     systemic left-wing bias, according to a new study by the University
     of East Anglia (UEA).

   According to MIT Technology Review, you'll get more right or left-wing
   answers depending on which AI model you ask.

   "I do worry that people really think these are super cyborg machines
   that can do anything and are faultless and they're very, very far, far
   from it," said Christopher Alexander, Chief Analytics Officer of
   Pioneer Development Group. Alexander also worked on various projects
   for the U.S. government on the development and implementation of AI.

   A new study from researchers from the University of California, Los
   Angeles, the University of Southern California, and Adobe Research
   shows AI systems are guilty of gender bias when it comes to writing
   recommendation letters.

   When the recommendation was about a male, ChatGPT used words like
   "expert," "reputable," and "authentic." For females, it used words like
   "beauty," "icon," and "delight."

   "It's a perfect example of how these biases can be created, but they
   really come not from the AI, but from the way the AI was trained, or
   the type of outputs that the AI produces," Alexander said.

   According to Nielsen Norman Research, AI improves employee productivity
   by 66%.

   "You have to make sure that you are using your own minds and you are
   discerning what is biased and what is unbiased just as we do when we
   read any kind of content online," Palmer suggested. "There's nothing
   different with the use of artificial intelligence than any other online
   content that people are using on a daily basis. Just be aware and make
   sure that you're applying your own thought to the content that you see
   pulled back."

   ChatGPT's parent company, OpenAI, said the technology is not free of
   stereotypes and biases.

     ChatGPT is not free from biases and stereotypes, so users and
     educators should carefully review its content. It is important to
     critically assess any content that could teach or reinforce biases
     or stereotypes. Bias mitigation is an ongoing area of research for
     us, and we welcome feedback on how to improve.

     The model is skewed towards Western views and performs best in
     English. Some steps to prevent harmful content have only been tested
     in English.

     The model's dialogue nature can reinforce a user's biases over the
     course of interaction. For example, the model may agree with a
     user's strong opinion on a political issue, reinforcing their
     belief.

     These biases can harm students if not considered when using the
     model for student feedback. For instance, it may unfairly judge
     students learning English as a second language.

   Alexander said AI developers must be careful in their programming.

   "You produce capabilities that often sit on top of ChatGPT or sit on
   top of some of these other capabilities. And that's where the real
   problem is because you are writing these prompts to do something, say
   for marketing or advertising. And you don't know that the AI
   necessarily has this bias within it. And now that bias is working
   through like an entire ecosystem of products," Alexander explained.
   Loading ...
   [associate-segment?buzz_key=sinclair&amp;amp;segment_key=sinclair-304&amp;amp;v
   alue=]
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-39">
<text>
   #alternate alternate homepage alternate alternate

   [ ]

     * News
     * Economy
     * Markets
     * Series [ ] Series
          + My Wildest Prediction
          + The Big Question
          + Business Planet
          + Focus
          + The Dialogue
          + The Exchange

     *
     *
     *
     *

   Visit Euronews

   (BUTTON) Close advertising

   Business Markets

Nvidia revenue triples on Artificial Intelligence chip rally

   Nvidia logo
   Nvidia logo - Copyright I-HWA CHENG/AFP or licensors (BUTTON)
   By Indrabati Lahiri
   Published on 22/11/2023 - 16:23•Updated 16:28
   Share this articleComments
   Share this article Close Button
   facebook Facebook facebook twitter Twitter twitter flipboard Flipboard
   flipboard send Send send reddit Reddit reddit messenger Messenger
   messenger linkedin Linkedin linkedin vk VK vk

   Tech giant Nvidia posted record fiscal third-quarter 2023 revenue this
   week following robust chip demand. Here's why it is the company
   investors all want a slice of.
   ADVERTISEMENT

   Tech giant, Nvidia, released staggering revenue this week of $18.12
   billion (€16.62 billion) for the third quarter (Q3) of this year,
   higher than analyst estimates of $16.18 billion and amounting to a 206%
   year-on-year increase, as well as an increase of around 34% more than
   the previous quarter.

   The strong financial results were supported by exceedingly strong
   demand for the company’s graphic processing units (GPUs), which are
   essentially computer chips that render graphics and images by
   performing rapid mathematical calculations.

   The company also announced adjusted earnings per share of $4.02, higher
   than the $3.37 per share expected. Net income clocked in at $9.24
   billion, a massive leap from the $680 million seen in the last fiscal
   year’s third quarter.
     * Microsoft develops two new computer chips to offset high cost of AI
       technology
     * Chat GPT-4 Turbo, AI assistants and Microsoft: Everything you need
       to know about OpenAI upgrades

   Data centre revenues soared to $14.51 billion, ahead of estimates of
   $12.97 billion, mainly boosted by cloud infrastructure providers. This
   was about 279% more than the same time last year and around 41% more
   than the last quarter.

   Gaming revenues clocked in at $2.86 billion, beating expectations of
   $2.68 billion. This was 81% higher year-on-year and 15% more than the
   last quarter.

Will 2024 be as profitable?

   The company expects the fiscal fourth quarter of the year to yield a
   revenue of around $20 billion, which would mean a growth of almost
   231%.

   Nvidia also revealed its new GH200 GPU during the third quarter, which
   is expected to be cheaper as well as have more memory storage than its
   current processors.

   Victoria Scholar, head of investment at Interactive Investor, noted:
   “The company which produces GPUs, critical in the AI market, however
   warned that it anticipates softness in China in the fourth quarter
   because of US export controls.

   "It also warned about a potential impact to its business from the
   Israel-Hamas conflict. These two factors combined with lofty
   expectations for the stellar stock market winner this year, sent Nvidia
   shares lower by 1.7% after hours, extending a near 1% drop in Tuesday’s
   session.”

   However, she highlighted that the lower move is a mere drop in the
   ocean, compared to this year’s triple digit surge.

Impact of export restrictions

   Meanwhile, the firm noted how export restrictions will primarily impact
   Nvidia’s A800 and H800 chips from being exported to China, and could
   also extend to AMD and Intel chips.

   This is likely to be a matter for ongoing negotiations between the US
   and China. The US is attempting to block China’s access to
   sophisticated semiconductors, which could prove to be vital for
   military and artificial intelligence purposes.

   However, this has led to increased speculation that China could choose
   to retaliate with its own economic sanctions against the US. This could
   be particularly worrying, given how dependent the US currently is on
   Chinese imports.

   Back in October, when the US had announced extended export
   restrictions, Nvidia had reassured investors that they would not impact
   short-term earnings, but could affect longer-term prospects. This is
   the scenario being seen now.

   In order to somewhat circumvent these new sanctions, the company has
   been in the process of creating new government-compliant data centre
   products. However, it is unlikely that they will be ready in time to
   make a significant impact on the fiscal fourth quarter results.

The AI race and ChatGPT

   Nvidia has recently also seen far more demand due to the development of
   ChatGPT, which has sparked a race for other AI developers to create
   their own chatbots. As a result, more chips and GPUs have been in
   demand, which is likely to continue for the foreseeable future, as long
   as consumers keep developing more Gen AI products.

   However, the company could still face issues with lower revenues and
   roundabout export channels, in case US export restrictions increase.
   Having to develop new compliant products to export could also take a
   hit on both its finances and competitiveness for the short-term at
   least, due to the time and capital involved.
   Share this articleComments

You might also like

   Co-founder, president and CEO of Nvidia Corporation Jensen Huang, left,
   and Foxconn chairman Young Liu, right. Now playing Next
   Tech News

Foxconn and Nvidia team up to build 'AI factories', CEOs say

   A Nvidia logo is seen on one of their products on display at their
   headquarters in Taipei, Taiwan May 31, 2023. Now playing Next
   Tech News

Nvidia's dominance in AI chips detering investment in rival start-ups

   Nvidia Co-founder, President, and CEO Jensen Huang speaks at the Taiwan
   Semiconductor Manufacturing Company facility under construction in
   Phoenix, Tuesday, Dec. 6, 2022. Now playing Next
   Tech News

World is at a ‘tipping point’ thanks to AI, says Nvidia boss

   USA AI China Nvidia Semiconductor Electronic chip

   ADVERTISEMENT

Most read

Which European countries have the highest and lowest salaries?

Precarious finances: 38% of Europeans no longer eat three meals a day

How much are Europeans left with at the end of the month?

Turkey faces scrutiny as exports to Russia surge

Good news for the global economy in 2024? Here's the OECD's forecast

   ADVERTISEMENT

Top stories

   Euro sign is photographed in front of the European Central Bank in
   Frankfurt, Germany Now playing Next

Euro area inflation slowdown brings ECB's 2% target back into focus

   Shoppers in Austria (file photo) Now playing Next

How much disposable income do households across Europe save?

   Rain clouds gather over the Reichstag building which houses Germany's
   lower house of parliament (Bundestag) in Berlin on September 28, 2022.
   Now playing Next

German unemployment at highest rate in more than two years

   This photograph taken on November 21, 2023 shows the Eiffel Tower above
   the rooftops of Paris. Now playing Next

France prices fall in November as inflation eases in the energy sector

   Disneyland Paris launches a major hiring campaign, aiming to recruit
   8,500 employees Now playing Next

Want to work at Disney Land Paris? They're hiring

   ____________________ (search) Search

     * News
     * Economy
     * Markets
     * Series

   Terms and ConditionsCookie PolicyModify my cookies choices
   -
   (BUTTON) English
   EnglishFrançaisDeutschItalianoEspañolPortuguêsРусскийTürkçeΕλληνικάMagy
   arفارسیالعربيةShqipRomânăქართულიбългарскиSrpski
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Visit Euronews

     * News
     * Economy
     * Markets
     * Series [ ] Series
          + My Wildest Prediction
          + The Big Question
          + Business Planet
          + Focus
          + The Dialogue
          + The Exchange

     *
     *
     *
     *

   [English______________]
   Visit Euronews

   Facebook
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-3">
<text>
   #It's Nice That

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-T3RZQHB

   HomeInspiring Creativity
   ____________________Search for something
   (BUTTON) Submit
   (BUTTON) Menu
   Your account
   Extra Search Tool
   Search
   (BUTTON) Categories
   Disciplines
     * Advertising
     * Animation
     * Architecture
     * Art
     * Creative Industry
     * Digital
     * Event

     * Fashion
     * Film
     * Graphic Design
     * Illustration
     * Photography
     * Product Design
     * Publication

   Popular Tags
     * 3D
     * Book
     * Branding
     * Collage
     * Comic
     * Exhibition
     * Font

     * Food &amp; Drink
     * Identity
     * Logo
     * Magazine
     * Music
     * Politics
     * Portrait

     * Poster
     * Sport
     * Sustainability
     * Technology
     * Typography
     * Web Design
     * Zine

   Content

   Work

   News

   Features
   Series

   Nicer Tuesdays

   Ones to Watch

   Review of the Year

   Forward Thinking

   The Next Generation

   In Conversation

   It's Nice That Podcast
   It's Nice That

   About

   Contact

   Brand Partnerships

   Newsletters

   Terms &amp; Conditions

   Privacy Policy

   Cookie Policy
   Editorial Team

   Matt Alagiah

   Jenny Brewer

   Lucy Bourton

   Liz Gorny

   Olivia Hingley

   Yaya Azariah Clarke
   Extra Nice

   About Extra Nice

   Login to your account

   Become a supporter
   Extra nice

   Extra Search

   Account
   Social

   Words
          Lucy Bourton

   Identity
          Suzy Chan

   —

   Date
          15 November 2023

   Tags

          + Insights
          + Shades of Intelligence
          + Features
          + Animation
          + Creative Industry
          + Digital
          + Graphic Design
          + Illustration
          + AI
          + Technology

Art direction vs artificial intelligence: A helpful tool or an added hassle?

   AI-powered text-to-image tools are presenting a moral quandary in terms
   of creative ethics. But is there a way to use such tools while
   expanding artistic potential?

   Share

   Words
          Lucy Bourton

   Identity
          Suzy Chan

   —

   Date
          15 November 2023

   Tags

          + Insights
          + Shades of Intelligence
          + Features
          + Animation
          + Creative Industry
          + Digital
          + Graphic Design
          + Illustration
          + AI
          + Technology

   Share

   In this third article of Shades of Intelligence, a new series
   investigating artificial intelligence and the creative industry, we
   look at how machine learning might reshape the research stage of a
   project.

   Whether you’re curious or cautious about machine learning’s effect on
   your practice, learn where it can be implemented – and the positives
   and negatives – via creative case studies and use cases by those in the
   know. This article investigates the visual research stage of a project,
   from moodboarding to art direction. For further investigations into AI
   and the creative process, head here.

   As things stand presently with artificial intelligence, it’s fair to
   say that most creatives have taken a few cautious initial steps into
   using machine learning. As our survey results suggest, 83% of creatives
   have already used AI tools, but wariness increases when the possibility
   of using these tools to actually create imagery comes to the fore.
   Questions of originality, bias and visual quality arise when
   text–to-image tools are brought into the equation. It raises the issue
   of whether it is ethically just to use text-to-image programmes, and if
   in fact the images such tools conjure up are even any good.

   To get a deeper understanding of this technological advancement turned
   moral dilemma, we speak to three individuals currently adopting machine
   learning to create visuals across moving image and animation,
   illustration and graphic design.

   IFRAME:
   https://player.vimeo.com/video/884404482?autoplay=1&amp;loop=1&amp;background=1

Step One: Moodboarding

   One creative whose practice incorporates text-to-image tools is
   Berlin-based experimental animator Dom Harwood, who releases work under
   the alias Infinite Vibes. Originally a sound designer, the artist was
   initially attracted to AI as it offered a playground “ripe for
   experimentation,” as he describes it. A little over two years ago, a
   friend recommended a very early iteration of a Google Colab AI notebook
   – where users can write code in a browser format – and Dom, being “a
   bit obsessive by nature,” was hooked. Since that fateful day in June
   2021, he can count on one hand the days he hasn’t opened an AI tool or
   programme. He’s also busier than ever. “I’ve been freelance for almost
   15 years but it’s gone crazy,” he tells It’s Nice That. “I’ve got way
   more offers than I can do, and it’s the first time in my life that has
   happened.”

   There are a few factors behind this. Firstly, there is an
   ever-increasing demand for moving image as a creative skill. Dom can
   also slot into any creative team working in this discipline and is
   often brought onto projects by directors to sit amongst the usual roles
   of colourists and cinematographers. Given his deep understanding of
   AI’s capabilities, he can also create work fully on his own, and in a
   style he has taken the time to develop – an approach that is mindful in
   respect to other artists when it comes to moodboarding, but remains
   open-minded to AI-generated possibilities. “Art has been my life, for
   my entire life. I have a lot of sympathy and compassion for traditional
   artists who are worried. A lot of people who are into this stuff come
   from a coding background and don’t empathise with artists,” Dom says.
   “It’s really immoral to steal style and this technology makes it so
   easy. I’m not creating typical stuff and I’m clearly not ripping off
   modern artists. I am very careful about that and put a lot into work
   that’s not AI.” In short, the work of Infinite Vibes is, he says,
   “augmented by AI, rather than being dreamt up by it.”

   A recent example is Infinite Vibes’ music video for Jessy Lanza, I Hate
   Myself, created entirely by Dom and 15 separate AI tools. A dreamscape
   of images of Jessy presented as a variety of artworks, I Hate Myself
   began with Dom’s usual starting point of stepping away from the digital
   world and heading to the park or a cafe with a notebook to develop
   ideas.

   The initial visualisation of these ideas will be created by Dom,
   usually in Blender, but then fed into AI tools for expansion. In this
   case, that first step began with the idea of a model of Jessy. To make
   a custom model, Dom was sent press photos of the artist to use in
   DreamBooth within Stable Diffusion. Here, the model can generate
   contextualised iterations of the image it is supplied with, allowing
   Dom to use “a few different methods of teaching Stable Diffusion the
   concept of Jessy Lanza,” as any creative would when building out the
   moodboard of a concept. From here, Dom moved into Stable Diffusion XL
   to create images in high resolution, before switching to Photoshop to
   extend these to the 16:9 ratio needed for a music video, using
   Photoshop’s Generative Fill tool. To give the AI Jessy Lanza the
   ability to sing, Jessy sent Dom an acapella version of the song to be
   used in another AI tool called SadTalker, which Dom used to make
   Jessy’s mouth and face move in sync with the song.

   The animation phase then called for a whole host of extra tools. Stable
   Diffusion is back open again here, but specifically Stable Diffusion
   Warp Fusion, which specialises in taking in video files so Dom can
   augment his animations with AI generation. Stable Diffusion can also be
   run locally on your own computer and, as it’s open source, “there’s a
   huge community of people building tools for it,” unlike similar tools
   Midjourney and Dall-E, Dom says. In Warp Fusion, Stable Diffusion is
   applied on top of the footage supplied, but uses a process called
   “optical flow” to keep the finished product coherent. “The issue with
   AI animation is if you’re feeding frames through, it will see every
   frame as a new image, applying a new diffusion over the top. You then
   get these crazy, stuttering, flickering videos,” Dom explains. “Warp
   Fusion predicts where the movement is and keeps that the same.” Animate
   Diff can also be used to do this, “which completely removes the
   flicker, but you have less control over the prompting.”

   This plethora of tools is then also combined with interfaces that the
   animator uses, such as Google Colabs and Automatic 1111, but also
   node-based interfaces like Comfy UI, where he can create his own
   workflows from nodes. If this all sounds a bit complex, Dom clarifies
   that “if you’ve ever used Touch Designer, Houdini or Blender, that’s a
   node-based workflow.”

   As and when to pick up and put down these tools then follows a natural
   process. Like any other medium, using any other tool, “It’s just about
   iterating towards a feeling, and then iterating further until it feels
   right,” Dom says. In the output of Infinite Vibes, Dom uses these
   programmes like others pick up different paintbrushes and his own ideas
   and references still lead the work. As you can see in his lengthy
   process, AI doesn’tautomate his creativity, a process which still needs
   clarification from those who commission him: “Clients still don’t know
   the limitations... It’s amazing, but it’s not a magic button.” But,
   it’s also a process he treasures. “I instantly lose interest if I feel
   like I’m filling in the blocks a computer came up with,” he says,
   referring to his aversion to using AI for idea generation. “Yes, it’s
   useful for corporate work when you need something that’s good enough
   but – as someone who doesn’t come to artistic work with that
   perspective – I have no interest in manually colouring in the book an
   AI has come up with. Why bother doing it at all?”

   IFRAME:
   https://player.vimeo.com/video/884404522?autoplay=1&amp;loop=1&amp;background=1

Step Two: Commissioning

   Seba Cestaro is another artist – this time in the field of traditional
   illustration – who references their own catalogue of work to expand
   with AI. Based in Buenos Aires, Seba, on the surface, is a traditional
   2D illustrator with an enviable list of sought-after clients, from The
   New Yorker to Netflix. The strength in his portfolio, particularly in
   the context of editorial commissions, is Seba’s ability to construct
   entire alternate worlds with a (digital) pen and paper. Although on
   first glance viewers will see nods to analogue qualities in texture,
   linework and colour palette, many of Seba’s newer, fascinatingly
   constructed environments, are thanks to AI.

   Although he has what he calls “a natural curiosity for emerging
   technologies”, at first the world of generated artworks felt far
   removed from the corner of illustration Seba had settled in. “I saw it
   as something distant, and wasn’t sure how it could influence my work,”
   he tells us. However, he noticed his peers adopting these technologies,
   largely by sharing work on social media. “It sparked my curiosity and
   compelled me to explore and understand what was happening in this
   field,” he says.

   Particularly interested in artists who were using generated imagery
   from text-based prompts, Seba saw the opportunity to embark on “an
   entirely new experience for me,” he says. This sentiment is relatively
   unique to Seba, according to our survey results, when compared to his
   peers. Respondents from the field of illustration were the least likely
   to have used AI in their practice, and were also the discipline most
   worried about AI’s impact on employment: 71% of illustrators stated
   they were concerned about how AI will affect their jobs, in comparison
   to 37% of all other respondents. Such concern is of course justified,
   given the machine learning advances we have seen so far. There is
   concern about text-to-image tools mimicking the style and hand of
   contemporary illustrators, resulting in currently commissioned work
   being brought in-house and increasing worries around copyright
   infringement in the already grey area of “owning” a style.

   Unfortunately, opportunities to curb these developments are often out
   of the hands of illustrators. It’s on the shoulders of art directors,
   studios, agencies, brands and so on to create work with the individuals
   who have inspired its direction, and it’s our view that this level of
   honesty and transparency should be a given in our industry (whether
   you’re using an AI tool or not). However, until potential regulations
   are in place, one way to gain a better grasp on AI’s impact on
   illustration is to experiment, as Seba has.

   Mainly working in Midjourney, Seba’s current technique is to blend
   already made illustrations into new ideas, while maintaining his
   original style. “If the result meets my expectations, I keep one of the
   images,” he says. “If I feel there is more to explore, I request
   additional options from the AI.” Then, he’ll take matters back into his
   own hands, opening Illustrator and vectorising the result and editing
   how he pleases. “Sometimes, I use only a portion of the image from
   Midjourney and illustrate something new around that piece,” he expands.
   “Once I have an image I like, I take it to Photoshop to work on
   textures, lighting and shadows.”

   Across Seba’s current portfolio you’ll see original 2D illustrations
   lifted into 3D renderings, still with a tint of an analogue shade
   thanks to this process. But there are also more photographic
   renderings, with nods to the original via colour palette and objects
   rendered into real life. “In this case, I use one of my illustrations
   as an input to which I add prompts (text) to help generate a new
   image,” the illustrator explains. “The AI takes that information and
   returns a set of four images based on it, which sometimes align with my
   expectations and sometimes take unexpected turns.” At times it can take
   Seba days to reach an image he likes “and that is the part I enjoy the
   most of the whole process,” he says, “the search for something new and
   unusual.” In short: “AI empowers me to extend the visual narrative of
   my artworks.”

   In only using his own work to generate new work, Seba’s quick to
   clarify he can “only speak about the way I use artificial
   intelligence”, when it comes to artists’ work being used in wider data
   sets. Interestingly, Seba’s AI experiments are also continuously well
   received amongst his community online. Much of this respect seems to be
   the result of Seba outwardly demonstrating his process, posting the
   original, the failures and the final AI-collaborated piece together. “I
   believe that showing the visual progression of a work from conception
   to completion can inspire curiosity and value,” he says. “In addition,
   my approach to AI focuses on free exploration… This constant search for
   innovation and authenticity is what can help create a connection with
   those who appreciate my work.”

   This openness to “multiply my artistic possibilities” has encouraged
   Seba to also see future possibilities for collaboration. Considering
   much of his work will be in tandem with an art director’s brief, the
   illustrator states how integrating AI into this back and forth could be
   viewed “as a positive thing,” he says. “I think it opens a door to a
   closer collaboration between [illustrators and art directors].” For
   example, Seba recently collaborated with fellow AI-inquisitive artists
   to generate prompts separately “and, once we had the images we liked,
   we merged them to create something new,” he says. “I imagine this same
   approach could be applied with an art director who set out to work with
   AI. We could each bring our perspective to the table and, from there,
   we would begin to generate images that would gradually approach a final
   result that we both agreed on.”

   IFRAME:
   https://player.vimeo.com/video/884404545?autoplay=1&amp;loop=1&amp;background=1

Step Three: Art Direction

   Outside implementing AI as part of the dialogue between art director
   and commissioned artist, there are of course agencies developing
   projects using these tools in-house. An example from earlier this year
   is Base Design’s campaign for opera house La Monnaie, created by its
   Brussels team. Briefed with the theme of “fate” for a season centring
   Wagner’s Ring, Base pitched the idea of leaving artwork generation in
   the hands of AI – a concept loved by the designers creating the work,
   and the opera house itself.

   Not only offering a conceptual nod to La Monnaie’s programming, using
   AI in such a large campaign seemingly offered Base the opportunity to
   create a boundary-pushing, experiential identity system. Not to mention
   the agency would ignite the talking point of being the first opera
   house to do so. Ironically, it would also give La Monnaie a unique
   level of control in asset creation, pitched by Base as a flexible
   design system in a toolbox to work with. But it was arguably a risk. A
   divisive emerging technology combined with a collection of epic operas
   from the 1800s, delivered as a malleable toolbox of assets Base would
   hand over to non-designers. However, after 15 years of working with
   Base’s design director Aurore Lechien, “La Monnaie trusted us, which
   encouraged us to go this far in the concept,” says Manon Bails, a
   strategist and copywriter at the agency.

   Sitting down with the Base team today, a mixed feeling towards the
   final result is evident. In the first few weeks of the project, each
   team member recalls a distinctive level of excitement towards the use
   of AI, sentimentally likening it to the same feeling they had as
   students. “It was so fun,” says design director Aurore plainly. “We
   just had fun for hours. Playing with the tool, getting it to improve,
   generating an awful picture… and then a nice one. It was really just a
   great moment.”

   What Base was developing at this stage was a series of visual
   imaginings in relation to the opera being created. Developed in tandem
   with the opera house, the Base team would input parts as they received
   them into Dall-E, which was chosen as it “provided the best results in
   terms of its weirdness and imperfect generation,” adds Arthur Dubois,
   Base’s motion designer. Arthur then used Google Colab to “inject life
   into still images” through animation, also working with Tokkin Heads,
   “an AI that generates characters and the facial features to apply a
   templated animation, or just record with your webcam to create an
   animation of the face,” he says. Runway was then also used, due to its
   framing interpolation, which generates in-between frames for a
   type-to-image transition. The final AI tool the team employed was
   Upscayl, used to upscale every image generated to principal resolution.

   Although these steps appear simple when noted down, the actual process
   of working with AI in a design context wasn’t without its challenges.
   Firstly, the imagery generated by Dall-E tested the creative limits of
   an identity system such as this. “It really allowed for an aesthetic
   that felt less corporate or commercial,” says Bruce Vansteenwinkel, a
   designer at Base. But at times these images weren’t appealing from an
   aesthetic standpoint. Thankfully, the animation techniques used “really
   helped us to increase the weirdness of each visual,” adds Aurore. “Even
   more so when we weren’t really fond of an image, adding motion could
   help bring the result we wanted.”

   The process of then delivering the work also proved harder than
   originally anticipated. When it came to collaborating with La Monnaie’s
   team “we realised that it was a bit more hassle,” explains Bruce. “We
   sold it as a toolbox. A way of collaborating where we could create
   images, they could create images, but that creates a lot of
   opportunities for new misunderstandings and new frustrations. Things
   became out of hand.”

   However, losing control led Base to realise the necessity of human-led
   design when collaborating with artificially generated artworks. “It’s
   funny. We sold them a concept of losing control, but then we lost so
   much control we had to gain it back,” Bruce says. “Right before
   launching there was an internal crisis because some of the images we’d
   developed were less striking than the originals we had presented. That
   was the concept, but because we’re designers – neat freaks, control
   freaks – we wanted to regain control of the image. The delight we had
   in the beginning turned into despair, and maybe even disappointment.”

   The final visual not representing an art director or designer’s initial
   vision is a possibility on any project. In the end, Base’s team placed
   themselves back in their usual role in a brief such as this, inputting
   details like the aforementioned animation techniques to tie the
   campaign together. “We were a bit naive,” says Aurore. “A tool where
   both we can create images, and the client can create images sounds
   wonderful, but looking at what they’d done we realised we were a very
   important part of the process. We have a culture of image. They have a
   culture of content. We understood that we were still needed, which is
   the whole question around AI.”

   Like Seba’s communication approach, since completing the La Monnaie
   project Base has been extremely open, and proud, of this use case of AI
   as art direction and design. As pointed out by Manon: “It’s our duty to
   use these tools and see where they can bring us to.” There has also
   been little backlash towards the agency, even though its team have used
   it so obviously.

   Arguably this is due to the fact that AI was only implemented due to
   its relevance for the overall theme of the opera season at hand, rather
   than “an excuse not to work, or have AI as a buzzword,” says Bruce. “On
   this project I received a lot of questions about whether AI is going to
   replace our jobs. In our personal experience, I think in many ways it
   can. But that’s more of a choice than an actual fate you have to
   accept. There are a few agencies working towards owning AI as their
   unique selling point, but I’m not sure whether that’s the strongest way
   to move forward with design at large. Choosing when and how to use it,
   maybe a little sparingly as well, evades the question of whether it
   will take our jobs.” Interestingly, since completing the project Base
   hasn’t used AI tools to this extent again, because, with this
   experience in mind, the concept hasn’t called for it.

   Within the context of using AI tools creatively, the moodboarding,
   commissioning and art direction steps discussed here are arguably the
   most divisive use cases. In curating contributors for this series,
   we’ve been careful to collaborate with individuals whose use cases of
   AI mirror our own sentiment, particularly in how they treat data sets
   that include other artists’ work.

   There are, of course, many others who do not adopt such caution, and
   there are legitimate concerns about certain tools we’ve mentioned. For
   example, earlier in 2023, a group of artists filed a lawsuit against
   Stability AI, Midjourney and DeviantArt for copyright infringement on
   their outputs – a case later dismissed. There is also currently little
   information about the data gathered to produce such outputs, leading to
   increasingly concerning cases of bias, an area of ethics explored in a
   piece commissioned by It’s Nice That earlier this year by artist Linda
   Dounia Rebeiz. Although the project cases referenced here voice the
   positives and negatives of using AI tools at these specific steps, we
   do advise that text-to-image technologies are used diligently by the
   wider industry, a prospect further explored in the final article of
   Shades of Intelligence below.

Shades of Intelligence: 83% of creatives are already using machine learning
tools – is now the time to get on side with AI?

   15 November 2023
     * Insights
     * Shades of Intelligence
     * ...

Can AI help you win your next brief?

   15 November 2023
     * Insights
     * Shades of Intelligence
     * ...

Will AI mean that creative directors get stuck in an “echo chamber” of
design?

   15 November 2023
     * Insights
     * Shades of Intelligence
     * ...

   IFRAME:
   https://player.vimeo.com/video/884759632?autoplay=1&amp;loop=1&amp;background=1

Glossary

   Google Colab: A Google Colab is an “executable document that lets you
   write, run and share code within Google Drive”. Based in browser, it is
   particularly useful for machine learning.

   Stable Diffusion: Stable Diffusion is an open-source, text-to-image
   model developed by Stability AI. Using text prompts it can create
   lifelike, detailed imagery which, while potentially useful, has raised
   alarm amongst the creative community for its ability to mimic style.

   Stable Diffusion XL: Stable Diffusion XL is one of the more recent
   updates as part of Stable Diffusion which can create images with
   shorter descriptions, and at a higher quality.

   Generative Fill: Featured as part of Photoshop, Generative Fill is a
   tool built to help edit images, either by extending the image at hand
   or removing content. As part of the Adobe suite, it’s arguably the most
   widespread visual AI tool currently available.

   SadTalker: SadTalker is a talking head generator which can create “3D
   motion coefficients” such as poses and expressions by using 3D
   modelling techniques, ExpNet and PoseVAE.

   Stable Warp Fusion: Another tool as part of the Stable Diffusion
   open-source family, Warp Fusion can be used to create moving image
   visuals using artificial intelligence to turn video into animation.

   Animate Diff: Animate Diff is a further AI video generator which can
   create animate text-to-image prompts. Unlike other tools, it doesn’t
   require specific tuning.

   Stable Diffusion Control Net: Another open source tool available, a
   Stable Diffusion Control Net creates a neural network which in turn
   adds extra conditions to image generation. This can allow users to
   create parameters to control image creation dependent on their needs.

   Automatic 1111: Also known as A111, Automatic 1111 is a web interface
   for individuals working with Stable Diffusion.

   Comfy UI: ComfyUI is a node-based modular user interface for Stable
   Diffusion. It allows you to create complex workflows and even make new
   custom nodes if you can code. There's a sizable community of users
   sharing workflows and new nodes to expand what it's capable of.

   Midjourney: Midjourney is another available AI tool which can create
   text-to-image generations from inputted prompts. It is currently
   available via Discord where users will receive four images to a prompt,
   before choosing which they would like to upscale.

   Dall-E: Developed by OpenAI, Dall-E is a further text-to-image AI tool
   currently available. Users can create new imagery from prompts or
   “outpaint” to expand images, “inpaint” to create realistic edits. You
   can also create “variations” on inputted imagery resulting in different
   variations.

Share Article

Further Info

   www.instagram.com/infinite_____vibes

   www.sebacestaro.com

   www.basedesign.com

About the Author

   Lucy Bourton

   —

   Lucy (she/her) joined It’s Nice That as a staff writer in July 2016
   after graduating from Chelsea College of Art. In January 2019 she was
   made deputy editor and in November 2021, became a senior editor
   predominantly working on It’s Nice That's partnerships. Feel free to
   get in contact with Lucy about creative projects for the site or
   potential partnerships.

   lb@itsnicethat.com

It's Nice That Newsletters

   Fancy a bit of It's Nice That in your inbox? Sign up to our newsletters
   and we'll keep you in the loop with everything good going on in the
   creative world.
   Email address: ____________________
   (BUTTON) Subscribe

   (BUTTON)
   It's Nice That


   Ground Floor, Princes House,
   37-39 Kingsway,
   London WC2B 6TP

   —

   +44 (0)20 7739 5222
   Content

   Work

   News

   Features
   Social

   Instagram

   TikTok

   LinkedIn

   Facebook

   Twitter

   Pinterest
   Links

   About

   Contact

   Privacy Policy

   Partnership Opportunities

   Network

   The HudsonBec Group

   Creative Lives in Progress

   Anyways Creative

   If You Could Jobs

   © It’s Nice That 2023 · Nice Face Logo © It’s Nice That
   Designed &amp; Developed by Bureau for Visual Affairs
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-40">
<text>
   #RSS 2.0 RSS .92 Atom 0.3

   PYMNTS.com » Feed PYMNTS.com » Comments Feed PYMNTS.com » Banks Harness
   AI as Weapon Against Rising Tide of Tech-Fueled Fraud Comments Feed
   alternate alternate alternate PYMNTS.com » JSON Feed PYMNTS.com » Banks
   Harness AI as Weapon Against Rising Tide of Tech-Fueled Fraud Comments
   Feed

   i2c - The Credit Economy June 2023

   PYMNTS Logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   WATCH NOW | SUBSCRIBE
   (BUTTON)

     * ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
     *  PYMNTS TV
     * Today
     * B2B
     * Retail
     * Fintech
     * Digital Transformation
     * Crypto
     * EMEA
     * Tracker^® Reports
     * PYMNTS^® Data
     * Markets
     * More

Topics
          + Artifical Intelligence
          + Connected Car
          + Buy Now Pay Later
          + Banking
          + Cloud
          + Cross-Border Payments
          + Gig-Economy
          + Grocery &amp; Pharmacy
          + Healthcare Payments
          + Insurtech
          + Small &amp; Medium Businesses
          + Social Platforms
          + Subscription Commerce
          + Travel
          + TechREG^®
          + Real-Time Payments
          + Restaurants
          + More Topics

Featured
          + SEE ALSO:
          + Editor’s Picks
          + Opinion
          + CE100 Index
          + Working Capital &amp; Liquidity
          + Competition Policy International
            A PYMNTS Company

Stay Current
          +  Subscribe
          +  Become a Partner

Banks Harness AI as Weapon Against Rising Tide of Tech-Fueled Fraud

   By PYMNTS  |  November 28, 2023
    |  (Play) (Play) (BUTTON)
   Banks Harness AI as Weapon Against Rising Tech-Fueled Fraud

   For banks, artificial intelligence is both foe and friend in the
   eternal battle against fraud.

   Foe because the bad actors are harnessing advanced technologies to
   forge new paths toward scamming financial institutions and their
   customers. Now, synthetic IDs, especially, are proving to be popular
   attack vectors and harder to guard against.

   Friend, because, as the adage goes, one can fight fire with fire. Banks
   can use AI, too, to detect and thwart fraud, often in real time.

   As joint research from PYMNTS Intelligence and Hawk AI revealed in the
   report “The State of Fraud and Financial Crime in the U.S.,” headed
   into the end of 2023, 43% of FIs have experienced increased fraud as
   compared to 2022. The average cost of fraud for FIs with assets of $5
   billion or more also increased by 65%, from $2.3 million in 2022 to
   $3.8 million in 2023.

The Attacks

   AI enables scammers to essentially cobble together identities — as
   customers, vendors, friends and family members through voice, text and
   collecting data online — to defraud banking clients and the FIs
   themselves. Images and audio only augment the scams, where a call or
   text can fake distress to lure victims into sending details or
   payments. Scouring the internet for these disparate data points is now
   easier than ever, phishing messages can be deployed at scale, and the
   fact that so much of daily life has pivoted to online channels makes it
   easier to, as they say, hit and run.

   As businesses continue to lean more heavily on their use of digital B2B
   channels, especially ones for payments, the recurring dual narrative of
   convenience and vulnerability highlights a challenge of digital
   transformation: navigating innovation while mitigating potentially
   costly risk.

   Other data points reinforce the pervasiveness of fraud. The FBI
   reported that business email compromise scams represented about $50
   billion in losses from 2013 to 2022 on a global scale. In the U.S.
   alone, that tally comes to $17 billion during the same time frame.

   PYMNTS Intelligence found that as many as 12% of fraudulent
   transactions come from scams in which the criminals impersonate bank
   tech support personnel. Another common method is to impersonate
   officials at the IRS. As PYMNTS referenced in a separate report, 47% of
   retail banking consumers under the age of 40 experienced some form of
   banking fraud this year.

   Fraud fighting technologies

Building the Defenses

   On the other side of the equation, PYMNTS Intelligence and Hawk AI
   found that advanced machine learning and AI technologies can help build
   robust defenses against schemes. These high-tech tools can identify
   anomalies in authorized user profiles and block bad actors before they
   even reach their targets. Fifty-six percent of FIs with more than $5
   million in assets reported plans to initiate or increase their use of
   ML and AI to improve existing fraud solutions. That’s a jump from the
   36% seen a year ago.

   For all PYMNTS AI coverage, subscribe to the daily AI Newsletter.

Recommended

   Banks Harness AI as Weapon Against Rising Tide of Tech-Fueled Fraud
   IMF, World Bank and BIS Collaborating on Uses of Tokenization
   FTC Issues $3 Million in Refunds for Leads Sold by HomeAdvisor
   58% of Consumers Consider Convenience When Applying for Credit Products
   See More In: artificial intelligence, B2B, B2B Payments, banking,
   Banks, commercial payments, Cybersecurity, digital identity, digital
   transformation, fraud, Hackers, News, PYMNTS Intelligence, PYMNTS News,
   PYMNTS Study, scams, Security, Technology

Trending News

   Swift Launches Cross-Border Instant Payments
   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO

The Big Story

   This AI Pioneer Says the Tech’s Best Applications Are in Payments
   Visa Growth Corporates Working Capital Index LAC Edition November 2023
   Ad

Featured News

   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO
   The Year That Led to Farfetch’s Earnings Call No-Show
   More Men Than Women Order Groceries Online
   Peacock Pins Subscription Hopes on Instacart Partnership
   Q3 GDP Is Strong but Real Disposable Income Lags Spending Growth
   42% of Consumers With Retail Subscriptions Shop Less Often at Physical
   Stores

Subscribe

   ____________________
   [ ] PYMNTS Today
   [ ] Artificial Intelligence
   [ ] Cryptocurrency
   [ ] B2B
   [ ] Retail
   [ ] TechREG®
   [ ] Digital Transformation
   (BUTTON) SUBSCRIBE (BUTTON)
   Loading...

Partner with PYMNTS

   We’re always on the lookout for opportunities to partner with
   innovators and disruptors.
   Learn More
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-41">
<text>
   [nojsimg.gif]

   Content
   Skip to Main ContentAccessibility Help
   (BUTTON) Menu
   ____________________When search suggestions are available use up and
   down arrows to review and enter to select.
   (BUTTON) Search
   (BUTTON)
   Search
   (BUTTON) Sign In

Quick Links

     * News
     * Sports
     * Radio
     * Music
     * Listen Live
     * TV
     * Watch

   (BUTTON)
     * news
     * Top Stories
     * Local
     * Climate
     * World
     * Canada
     * Politics
     * Indigenous
     * Opinion
     * The National
     * Business
     * Health
     * Entertainment
     * Science
     * CBC News Investigates
     * Go Public
     * About CBC News
     * Being Black in Canada
     * (BUTTON) More

   Moncton researchers developing artificial intelligence to fight
   wildfires | CBC News Loaded
   New Brunswick

Moncton researchers developing artificial intelligence to fight wildfires

   A team of engineers at the Université de Moncton is fine-tuning an
   algorithm that works with satellite and drone images to detect fires
   more accurately than humans. The technology also predicts where a blaze
   will spread, helping firefighters know where to send resources.

Technology uses satellite images to quickly detect fires and predict spread

   Alexandre Silberman · CBC News · Posted: Nov 27, 2023 5:00 AM EST |
   Last Updated: November 27
   Moulay Akhloufi holds a drone
   Moulay Akhloufi, a computer science professor and head of the
   Perception, Robotics, and Intelligent Machines Laboratory, said
   artificial intelligence is more accurate than the human eye at
   detecting fires. (Alexandre Silberman/CBC)

Social Sharing

   Researchers in New Brunswick are developing a new approach to tackling
   Canada's growing threat of wildfires: teaching artificial intelligence
   to find them faster.

   A team of engineers at the Université de Moncton is fine-tuning an
   algorithm that works with satellite and drone images to detect fires
   more accurately than humans. The technology also predicts where a blaze
   will spread, helping firefighters know where to send resources.

   Moulay Akhloufi, a computer science professor and head of the
   Perception, Robotics and Intelligent Machines Laboratory, said it can
   help spot signs of a fire the human eye would miss.

   "It's very accurate. Some of the algorithms are able to get to more
   than 99 per cent performance when we want to detect fires," he said.

   After Canada's worst wildfire season on record, forestry and wildfire
   experts are turning to modelling and satellites as an increasingly
   important tool. While in early stages of development, some firefighters
   are already using artificial intelligence to inform decisions on the
   ground.

   "We are using machine learning, when and where appropriate, to do a
   better job managing wildfires," said wildfire expert Mike Flannigan,
   of Thompson Rivers University.

   "It's a very effective tool, though it's not a panacea. It's not going
   to solve all our problems."

Early detection

   Inside the Moncton lab, researchers are looking at how machine learning
   can help with both early detection of fires and modelling possible
   spread.

   The algorithm for spotting fires quickly analyzes data from different
   sources, including sensors on the ground and images from drones and
   satellites.

   With those pictures, it rapidly scans pixel by pixel to search for
   smoke or flames — a level of precision beyond what the human eye could
   detect. If it spots something of concern, the algorithm then considers
   environmental conditions — like heat and wind — to determine if it's
   actually a fire.
   Moulay Akhloufi looks over computer modeling that predicts the spread
   of a wildfire based on environmental conditions.
   Moulay Akhloufi looks over computer modelling that predicts the spread
   of a wildfire based on environmental conditions. (Alexandre
   Silberman/CBC)

   Akhloufi said they're working to build algorithms that adapt to
   different conditions, and with more satellites in the sky, the
   technology will be easier to use in Canada.

   "We use the data to train the algorithms, so they are able to detect
   these small pixels that show that there is some smoke or some fire
   starting," he said.

   The team of engineers is also looking at how drones could be used to
   battle fires from the sky.
     * How satellites are being used in the battle against wildfires

     * How experts use modelling and satellites to predict and tackle
       wildfires

   Marc-André Blais, a student researcher, said he's working to fine-tune
   an algorithm to pull off a "swarm attack" on a blaze.

   "So controlling thousands of drones at once is a complicated task for a
   human. For artificial intelligence, it's a lot more simple. So we train
   models and algorithms to solve that task," he said.
   Marc-André Blais
   Marc-André Blais is a student researcher looking at how drones could be
   used to combat wildfires. (Alexandre Silberman/CBC)

   Akhloufi said his team's fire-spread models will need more satellite
   data to be used in Canada. He said there's currently not enough
   information to make the models accurate enough to be used.

   "We just have to adapt to the geography where we want to work," he
   said.

First wildfire satellite

   The wildfire models and simulations often rely on data from hundreds of
   Earth-observation satellites.

   A new tool for getting a view on the skies is in development. In 2029,
   the Canadian Space Agency plans to launch WildFireSat, the world's
   first purpose-built satellite for monitoring wildfires.

   "Whether using drones or UAVs [unmanned aerial vehicles], or small
   satellites or ground-based cameras, they basically allow you to have a
   more hands-off approach when it comes to fire monitoring," said Morgan
   Crowley, a forest fire research scientist with Natural Resources
   Canada who is part of the team working on the mission.

   "That's extremely ideal when you have so many fires all happening at
   the same time across the country."
   WATCH |See artificial intelligence quickly detect fires:

How AI could revolutionize the way Canada fights wildfires

   3 days ago
   Duration 2:49
   Featured VideoA team of New Brunswick researchers believes artificial
   intelligence could help firefighters better contain blazes.

   The new satellite is designed to pass over during peak burn period,
   which is the later afternoon. Canada currently has little aerial
   observation data at that time. The images and data will be in the hands
   of decision-makers within half an hour.

   Crowley said having more precise information will allow fire management
   teams to prepare for the next day and "triage" different fires.

   "You can't respond to every fire, nor should you, so being able to
   decide which ones are the most pressing, dangerous ones allows them to
   use their resources optimally," she said.
     * As wildfires worsen, Canada's space agency wants to become
       firefighters' eye in the sky

   Climate experts say catastrophic fires are a trend that will likely
   continue into the future, creating a growing need for new tools for
   firefighters.

   "We can expect more fire in the future as we continue to warm, longer
   fire seasons, more lightning, warmer temperatures," Flannigan said.

   "Research we did 20 years ago suggested that eastern Canada would see
   more fires mid-century. After 2023, I'm starting to rethink that. Maybe
   it's coming a lot quicker than we expect."

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

   Alexandre Silberman

   Video journalist

   Alexandre Silberman is a video journalist with CBC News based in
   Moncton. He has previously worked at CBC Fredericton, Power &amp; Politics,
   and Marketplace. You can reach him by email at:
   alexandre.silberman@cbc.ca
     * Follow Alexandre on Twitter

   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News
   Corrections and clarifications|Submit a news tip| (BUTTON) Report error

Footer Links

My Account

     * Profile
     * CBC Gem
     * Newsletters
     * About CBC Accounts

Connect with CBC

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * Mobile
     * RSS
     * Podcasts

Contact CBC

     * Submit Feedback
     * Help Centre

   Audience Relations, CBC
   P.O. Box 500 Station A
   Toronto, ON
   Canada, M5W 1E6

   Toll-free (Canada only):
   1-866-306-4636

About CBC

     * Corporate Info
     * Sitemap
     * Reuse &amp; Permission
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy
     * Jobs
     * Our Unions
     * Independent Producers
     * Political Ads Registry
     * AdChoices

Services

     * Ombudsman
     * Corrections and Clarifications
     * Public Appearances
     * Commercial Services
     * CBC Shop
     * Doing Business with Us
     * Renting Facilities
     * Radio Canada International
     * CBC Lite

Accessibility

   It is a priority for CBC to create products that are accessible to all
   in Canada including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive
   challenges.

   Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows
   offered on CBC Gem.
     * About CBC Accessibility
     * Accessibility Feedback

     *
     * ©2023 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved.
     * Visitez Radio-Canada.ca

   (BUTTON)

   now
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-42">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

CNN values your feedback

   1. How relevant is this ad to you?
   (*)
   ( )
   ( )
   ( )
   ( )
   2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
   [ ]
   Video player was slow to load content [ ] Video content never loaded
   [ ] Ad froze or did not finish loading [ ] Video content did not start
   after ad [ ] Audio on ad was too loud [ ] Other issues [ ]
   Ad never loaded [ ] Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading [ ]
   Content moved around while ad loaded [ ] Ad was repetitive to ads I've
   seen previously [ ] Other issues [ ]

   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   ____________________________________________________________
   (BUTTON) Cancel (BUTTON) Submit
   Thank You!
   Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
   appreciated.
   Close
   Ad Feedback

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   More
   Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos
   Audio Live TV (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) Log In
   My Account
     * Settings
     * Topics You Follow
     * Log Out

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) Log In
   My Account
     * Settings
     * Topics You Follow
     * Log Out

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account
     __________________________________________________________________

   Live TV Audio
     __________________________________________________________________

   Edition
   US
   International
   Arabic
   Español
   Edition
     * US
     * International
     * Arabic
     * Español
     __________________________________________________________________

   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   Follow CNN Business
     *
     *
     *
     __________________________________________________________________

     * World
          + Africa
          + Americas
          + Asia
          + Australia
          + China
          + Europe
          + India
          + Middle East
          + United Kingdom
     * US Politics
          + The Biden Presidency
          + Facts First
          + 2024 Elections
     * Business
          + Tech
          + Media
          + Calculators
          + Videos
     * Markets
          + Pre-markets
          + After-Hours
          + Market Movers
          + Fear &amp; Greed
          + World Markets
          + Investing
          + Markets Now
          + Before the Bell
          + Nightcap
     * Health
          + Life, But Better
          + Fitness
          + Food
          + Sleep
          + Mindfulness
          + Relationships
     * Entertainment
          + Movies
          + Television
          + Celebrity
     * Tech
          + Innovate
          + Gadget
          + Foreseeable Future
          + Mission: Ahead
          + Upstarts
          + Work Transformed
          + Innovative Cities
     * Style
          + Arts
          + Design
          + Fashion
          + Architecture
          + Luxury
          + Beauty
          + Video
     * Travel
          + Destinations
          + Food &amp; Drink
          + Stay
          + News
          + Videos
     * Sports
          + Football
          + Tennis
          + Golf
          + Motorsport
          + US Sports
          + Olympics
          + Climbing
          + Esports
          + Hockey
     * Videos
          + Live TV
          + Digital Studios
          + CNN Films
          + HLN
          + TV Schedule
          + TV Shows A-Z
          + CNNVR
     * Features
          + As Equals
          + Call to Earth
          + Freedom Project
          + Impact Your World
          + Inside Africa
          + 2 Degrees
          + CNN Heroes
          + All Features
     * Weather
          + Climate
          + Wildfire Tracker
          + Video
     * More
          + Photos
          + Longform
          + Investigations
          + CNN Profiles
          + CNN Leadership
          + CNN Newsletters
          + Work for CNN

   Markets
   DOW
   S&amp;P 500
   NASDAQ

   Fear &amp; Greed Index
   ----- is driving the US market

   Latest Market News
   4 reasons why the Tesla Cybertruck already lost its advantage
   Four new work benefits that may help you save more in 2024
   New billionaire heirs overtake self-made ones as $5.2 trillion wealth
   transfer begins
   Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later.
   Ad Feedback
   COP28
   Ad Feedback

How AI could power the climate breakthrough the world needs

   Clare Duffy Rachel Ramirez
   By Clare Duffy and Rachel Ramirez, CNN
   9 minute read
   Updated 9:23 AM EST, Mon November 27, 2023
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   Link Copied!
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   20231120_climateai
   Illustration by Leah Abucayan/cnn/getty

   Programming note: Listen to a version of this story on CNN’s One Thing
   podcast with David Rind.
   New York CNN  —

   Tomato growers in central India have been increasingly worried about
   the volatility that extreme weather events have brought to the region.
   For much of the area, the last decade has been punctuated by severe
   droughts that led to significant crop loss, impacting the livelihoods
   of local farmers.

   On the other side of the world, Silicon Valley startup ClimateAi is
   developing an artificial intelligence platform to evaluate how
   vulnerable crops are to warming temperatures over the next two decades.
   The tool uses data on the climate, water and soil of a particular
   location to measure how viable the landscape will be for growing in the
   coming years.

   Maharashtra, India, was one of its first case studies in 2021. Farmers
   could go into the ClimateAi app and input what seed they were growing
   and where they wanted to plant it.

   With that data, ClimateAi ran simulations and found that extreme heat
   and drought would lead to an approximately 30% decrease in tomato
   output in the region over the next two decades. It warned growers that
   they should change their strategy.

   The results proved pivotal — tomato producers adjusted their business
   plans by switching to more climate-resilient seed varieties and
   shifting the times they plant tomato seeds. Finding new growing
   locations usually takes a while for farmers affected by climate change,
   but “now it can happen in a matter of minutes, and it also saves them a
   lot of cost,” according to Himanshu Gupta, who grew up in India and is
   the CEO and co-founder of ClimateAi.

   “The way we think about AI is it’s a time and effectiveness multiplier
   to the solutions for climate change,” Gupta told CNN.

   Better assessing future risks for farming is just one of the ways
   artificial intelligence technologies are being used to address the
   climate crisis.

   AI first crashed into the public consciousness this year thanks to
   popular, consumer-facing AI tools like ChatGPT, and experts say the
   technology is set to revolutionize countless industries. But climate
   researchers have for years been thinking about how AI — computer
   programs that can rapidly analyze enormous amounts of data and complete
   complex tasks in ways similar to how a human might — could help them
   better understand and address the changing climate.
   AI explainer STOCK RESTRICTED
   Tom Werner/Stone RF/Getty Images

   Everything you need to know about AI but were too afraid to ask

   Now, experts say AI is poised to accelerate everything from reducing
   pollution to improving weather models.

   “Efficiencies is one thing that AI is very good at, optimizing
   decisions, optimizing resources,” said Fengqi You, chair professor at
   Cornell University’s engineering school. “It’s a system that has very
   strong predictive capabilities that could be tremendously helpful in
   many domains, ranging from (understanding) small-scale molecules … to
   broader climate systems to help us fight climate change.”

   With the breakneck pace at which the planet has been
   warming, accelerating the speed at which the world deploys and
   implements solutions is crucial. But for all of AI’s promise, the
   infrastructure that supports the technology — data centers filled with
   rows of powerful, energy-sucking computers — could itself be a strain
   on the environment. Experts say software engineers must work closely
   with climate scientists to find a balance.

   “It’s definitely something that has to be considered as this
   trade-off,” said Kara Lamb, an associate research scientist at Columbia
   University’s earth and environmental engineering department. Still,
   “the positives outweigh the negatives in terms of applying it to these
   types of approaches.”
   An artificial intelligence platform developed by ClimateAi is helping
   tomato growers in India adapt to extreme weather.
   An artificial intelligence platform developed by ClimateAi is helping
   tomato growers in India adapt to extreme weather.
   Indranil Aditya/NurPhoto/Getty Images

Technology that speeds up discovery

   Artificial intelligence is a broad term that refers to various digital
   tools trained to perform a wide range of complex tasks that might
   previously have required input from an actual person. Generally, what
   these technologies have in common is their ability to rapidly process
   and find connections among vast amounts of disparate data.

   This makes AI particularly good at things like forecasting and running
   simulations. And unlike traditional computer programs, AI tools can
   typically continue learning over time as new data is available or as
   the systems receive new feedback about the quality of their outputs.

   While scientific discovery used to be reliant on humans’ ability to
   gather, observe and analyze evidence, computers can now process large
   datasets, identify patterns and run digital experiments in a fraction
   of the time that human researchers would need.
   WHITEWATER, CALIFORNIA - FEBRUARY 22: Wind turbines operate at a wind
   farm, a key power source for the Coachella Valley, as vehicles drive on
   February 22, 2023 near Whitewater, California. Wind turbines in
   California provide enough energy to power more than 2 million homes
   while the International Energy Agency (IEA) predicts renewable energy
   will account for 35 percent of worldwide power generation in 2025.
   (Photo by Mario Tama/Getty Images)
   Wind turbines near Whitewater, California in Fenruary 2023. The world
   needs to rapidly slash planet heating emissions, but climate policies
   have become a flashpoint in the culture wars.
   Mario Tama/Getty Images

   ‘An agenda to control you’: How climate solutions got sucked into a
   fevered culture war

   “For the climate models, fundamentally we’re trying to solve these
   equations … how these atmosphere models are interacting, and it takes a
   long time to solve,” You said. Similarly, research on new energy
   conduction materials, like those for solar panels, could require
   countless hours of testing that can now be sped up using AI.

   “In the past, people used to need trial and error, we’d need …
   researchers working every day and night,” You said. “Now, because of
   AI, which doesn’t need to sleep, it just needs electric power, it could
   keep working 24/7 and it can become very helpful in accelerating
   discovery.”

   AI probably won’t replace the need for humans in the climate change
   fight. But it could make their work faster and more effective.

   Researchers seeking to restore coastlines by replanting seagrass, for
   example, are using AI to model the best locations to target those
   replanting efforts, said Dan Keeler, chief communication officer at
   impact investing firm Newday, which is involved in charitable efforts
   to support the coastal restoration.

   An AI algorithm trained to address the issue could take into
   consideration everything from toxins in the water or disruptive
   shipping routes to how replanting efforts could impact nearby sea life
   or even coastal tourism.

   “It’s very difficult to put all those together into a single model with
   conventional methods, but AI actually makes that much more possible,”
   Keeler said.

AI ‘doing the dirty work’ in climate research

   The Arctic is warming four times faster than the rest of the planet,
   scientists have found. Rising temperatures are melting sea ice, thawing
   permafrost and igniting wildfires in what should be one of the coldest
   regions on Earth.

   Climate experts have said what happens in the Arctic is a bellwether
   for the rest of the world. But climate models – which scientists use to
   predict long-term change – are not capturing how fast it’s warming.
   Drilling operations by Natural Hydrogen Energy LLC in the Midwest of
   the USA.
   Drilling operations for white hydrogen by Natural Hydrogen Energy in
   the US Midwest.
   Viacheslav Zgonnik

   They went hunting for fossil fuels. What they found could help save the
   world

   With the help of AI, Anna Liljedahl, a scientist at the Woodwell
   Climate Research Center, can make permafrost forecasts on a seasonal
   timescale, instead of on the typical 100-year timescale, giving her and
   other researchers a better picture of how fast the Arctic is melting.

   “AI is doing the dirty work,” Liljedahl told CNN. “But AI is not
   perfect, so we see it as a first tool, and then the human will come in
   after and really check and make sure that things make sense and explore
   the things that AI suggested.”

   The technology can also be used for solutions. A 2019 Google DeepMind
   project trained an AI model on weather forecasts and historical wind
   turbine data to predict the availability of wind power, helping to
   increase the value of the renewable energy source for wind farmers. AI
   can also help predict when and where energy demand is going to be
   highest, allowing grid operators to “make sure they have power online,
   ready to supply demand, and also that they don’t have power that’s just
   being produced and it’s going to be consumed, because that’s obviously
   a tremendous waste,” said Keeler.
   Artificial intelligence can be used to help better predict the supply
   and demand for renewable energy sources.
   Artificial intelligence can be used to help better predict the supply
   and demand for renewable energy sources.
   Daniel Leal/AFP/Getty Images

   ClimateAi’s Gupta said the problem is figuring out how to integrate
   renewable capacity into the existing fossil fuel-dominated grid. AI can
   identify in real-time which renewable energy sources are available in
   the areas where consumers want it — optimizing consumer demand and
   supply for renewables.

   Elsewhere, AI is also being used to research materials that could
   effectively recapture carbon from the atmosphere and to model and
   forecast major floods to help local government agencies better prepare
   for and react to potential emergencies.

   The Cool Down, a media company aiming to help consumers better
   understand the climate crisis and potential solutions, is set to launch
   an AI tool early next year that will answer user questions about how to
   live a more sustainable lifestyle, according to Anna Robertson,
   co-founder and head of content and partnerships. The tool will use data
   from its site about what kinds of climate information consumers are
   most curious about to direct users to information, including answering
   questions like, “What can I do with my old jeans?” or “I want to switch
   my laundry detergent, where should I start?”

   “Part of the problem is that the issue itself has become so
   overwhelming and mostly dominated by doom and gloom and not the
   solutions we have at our fingertips,” Robertson told CNN. “We want to
   make it easier for people to make better choices.”

Finding the right balance

   There’s a downside to all this computational power: Running artificial
   intelligence models is energy-intensive, and many data centers are
   operated in areas that are still heavily reliant on fossil fuels,
   Cornell’s You said. Data centers also typically require water for
   cooling — a dwindling resource in some places where this computing is
   being done, including the American West.

   For now, the amount of energy used to power AI is relatively small
   compared to what’s consumed by transportation or buildings. “But this
   is going to grow very fast, and we do need to be very careful at this
   moment before it grows exponentially,” You said.

   An October study from Dutch researcher Alex de Vries estimated that the
   “worst-case scenario” suggests Google’s AI systems could eventually
   consume as much electricity as the country of Ireland each year,
   assuming a full-scale adoption of AI in their current hardware and
   software. Developers should be advised “not only to focus on optimizing
   AI, but also to critically consider the necessity of using AI in the
   first place, as it is unlikely that all applications will benefit from
   AI or that the benefits will always outweigh the costs,” the study
   concludes.
   Data center operators like Google are already thinking about how to
   reduce the resources needed to power the computing behind their AI
   models.
   Data center operators like Google are already thinking about how to
   reduce the resources needed to power the computing behind their AI
   models.
   Alex Kraus/Bloomberg/Getty Images

   Some data center operators are already beginning to address these
   concerns.

   Amazon Web Services, the online shopping giant’s cloud computing arm,
   has pledged to be “water positive” by 2030, meaning the company will
   “return more water to the communities in which we have our data center
   infrastructure than we take,” CEO Adam Selipsky told CNN in an October
   interview.

   In Oregon, for example, where drought has tightened its grip in recent
   years, AWS is providing the spent water used for cooling its data
   centers to local farmers for irrigation at no cost.

   The companies building and running data centers to carry out AI
   workloads can also think about strategically placing them in areas
   where they might require fewer natural resources to operate, You said.
   If data centers are built in colder parts of the world, for example,
   less water will be needed for cooling; Scandanavia has emerged as a
   popular location for data centers, also bolstered by its relatively
   robust availability of renewable energy sources.
   From the International Space Station, Expedition 42 Flight Engineer
   Terry W. Virts took this photograph of the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. Gulf
   Coast at sunset and posted it to social media on Dec. 14, 2014.
   From the International Space Station, Expedition 42 Flight Engineer
   Terry W. Virts took this photograph of the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. Gulf
   Coast at sunset and posted it to social media on Dec. 14, 2014.
   Terry Virts/NASA

   This controversial climate solution could be exactly what the planet
   needs. Or it could be a colossal disaster

   Lawmakers in the United States and abroad — who have in recent months
   increasingly turned their attention to developing guardrails for AI —
   should consider both the technology’s potential benefits in fighting
   climate change and its environmental impact when developing
   regulations, You added.

   “Regulators, decision makers, policymakers really need to think about
   this when they are looking at the growth of [the AI] industry,” You
   said. “The growth of the industry is not only about the software, tools
   and so on, but also how they operate these data centers.”

   Tech experts also caution that AI must be made affordable and
   accessible for low-income nations, particularly those in the Global
   South that are on the frontlines of the climate crisis yet contribute
   the least to global pollution, something Gupta hopes to address as he
   expands ClimateAi’s resources.

   “When it comes to AI being applied to climate change,” said Gupta, “I
   think we are just scratching the surface of the potential that exists
   both in terms of the impact it could create for businesses, but also
   the impact it could create at the humanity level.”

   This story has been updated to note that Himanshu Gupta is both the CEO
   and co-founder of ClimateAi.

   Related
   [230209155836-04-solar-geoengineering-mexico-file-earth.jpg?c=16x9&amp;q=h_
   144,w_256,c_fill]
   Ad Feedback
   Ad Feedback

More from CNN Business

   Founder and CEO of Alibaba Jack Ma is interviewed by Maurice Levy in
   the VivaTech Exhibition in Palais des Expositions of Porte de
   Versailles, Paris, France on May 16, 2019.
   Abaca Press/SIPAPRE/Sipa USA/AP
   ‘Pay any price.’ Alibaba’s Jack Ma urges reform as rival rattles
   e-commerce giant
   Nov 30, 2023
   Chinese President Xi Jinping delivers a speech via video at the opening
   ceremony of the fifth China International Import Expo held in east
   Chinaʼs Shanghai on Nov. 4, 2022.
   Li Xueren/Xinhua/Getty Images/File
   Xi Jinping visits financial hub Shanghai for first time in three years
   as Chinese economy sputters
   Nov 30, 2023
   Ad Feedback

CNN Business Videos

   NEW YORK, NEW YORK - NOVEMBER 29: Elon Musk speaks onstage during The
   New York Times Dealbook Summit 2023 at Jazz at Lincoln Center on
   November 29, 2023 in New York City. (Photo by Slaven Vlasic/Getty
   Images for The New York Times)
   Slaven Vlasic/Getty Images
   Elon Musk directly tells advertisers to ‘go f**k yourself’ during
   interview
   Nov 30, 2023
   HBCU dolls
   WFAA
   Texas woman launches first HBCU doll line
   Nov 29, 2023
   FST birthplace of sake
   What gives the ‘birthplace of sake’ its edge?
   Nov 29, 2023
   Charlie Munger, vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., speaks to
   members of the media during a shareholders shopping day ahead of the
   Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, U.S., on Friday,
   May 3, 2019. Buffettʼs Berkshire Hathaway agreed earlier this week to
   make the investment in Occidental to help the oil producer with its $38
   billion bid for Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Photographer: Houston
   Cofield/Bloomberg via Getty Images
   Houston Cofield/Bloomberg/Getty Images
   Charlie Munger dead at 99
   Nov 29, 2023
   Ad Feedback
   Ad Feedback

   ____________________ (BUTTON) Search

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) Log In
   My Account
     * Settings
     * Topics You Follow
     * Log Out

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account
     __________________________________________________________________

   Live TV Audio
     __________________________________________________________________

     * World
          + Africa
          + Americas
          + Asia
          + Australia
          + China
          + Europe
          + India
          + Middle East
          + United Kingdom
     * US Politics
          + The Biden Presidency
          + Facts First
          + 2024 Elections
     * Business
          + Markets
          + Tech
          + Media
          + Calculators
          + Videos
     * Health
          + Life, But Better
          + Fitness
          + Food
          + Sleep
          + Mindfulness
          + Relationships
     * Entertainment
          + Movies
          + Television
          + Celebrity
     * Tech
          + Innovate
          + Gadget
          + Foreseeable Future
          + Mission: Ahead
          + Upstarts
          + Work Transformed
          + Innovative Cities
     * Style
          + Arts
          + Design
          + Fashion
          + Architecture
          + Luxury
          + Beauty
          + Video
     * Travel
          + Destinations
          + Food &amp; Drink
          + Stay
          + News
          + Videos
     * Sports
          + Football
          + Tennis
          + Golf
          + Motorsport
          + US Sports
          + Olympics
          + Climbing
          + Esports
          + Hockey
     * Videos
          + Live TV
          + Digital Studios
          + CNN Films
          + HLN
          + TV Schedule
          + TV Shows A-Z
          + CNNVR
     * Features
          + As Equals
          + Call to Earth
          + Freedom Project
          + Impact Your World
          + Inside Africa
          + 2 Degrees
          + CNN Heroes
          + All Features
     * Weather
          + Climate
          + Wildfire Tracker
          + Video
     * More
          + Photos
          + Longform
          + Investigations
          + CNN Profiles
          + CNN Leadership
          + CNN Newsletters
          + Work for CNN
     __________________________________________________________________

   Audio Live TV
   Follow CNN Business
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) Log In
   My Account
     * Settings
     * Topics You Follow
     * Log Out

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account
     __________________________________________________________________

   Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in
   real time, except for the S&amp;P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes.
   All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights
   reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of
   Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights
   reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to
   and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary
   of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&amp;P
   Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard &amp; Poor’s and S&amp;P are registered trademarks
   of Standard &amp; Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a
   registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content
   of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC
   and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market
   holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

   Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility &amp; CC About
   Newsletters Transcripts

   © 2023 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights
   Reserved.
   CNN Sans ™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-43">
<text>
    stub #alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate
   alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate alternate Unite.AI »
   Feed Unite.AI » Comments Feed Unite.AI » Physical Constraints Drive
   Evolution of Brain-Like AI Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Unite.AI

     * AI Tools
          + Business
          + Chatbots
          + Code Generators
          + Education
          + Crypto Trading
          + Headshot Generators
          + Image Enhancers
          + Image Generators
          + Marketing Tools
          + Music Generators
          + SEO
          + Stock Trading
          + Text to Speech
          + Transcription
          + Translation
          + Video Enhancers
          + Video Generators
          + Voice Generators
          + Writing Tools
     * Events
          + AI Conferences
          + Cybersecurity Conferences
          + Robotics Conferences
          + SEO Conferences
     * News
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Artificial General Intelligence
          + Brain Machine Interface
          + Cybersecurity
          + Ethics
          + Healthcare
          + Investments
          + Quantum Computing
          + Regulation
          + Robotics
          + Surveillance
          + Thought Leaders
     * Certifications
          + Blockchain
          + Cloud
          + Cybersecurity
          + Data Science
          + Interviews
          + Machine Learning
          + Natural Language Processing
          + Python
          + Robotic Process Automation
          + TensorFlow
          + Courses
     * Python Libraries
          + Data Science
          + Deep Learning
          + Image Processing
          + Machine Learning
          + Natural Language Processing
     * Newsletters
     * Contact Us

   Connect with us
     *
     *
     *
     *

   ____________________

   Unite.AI

Unite.AI

Physical Constraints Drive Evolution of Brain-Like AI

   (BUTTON)
     * AI Tools
          +
               o
                    # Popular
                         @ Code Generators
                         @ Image Enhancers
                         @ Image Generators
                         @ Music Generators
                         @ Video Enhancers
                         @ Video Generators
                         @ Voice Generators
                         @ Writing
               o
                    # Consumer
                         @ Education
                         @ Text to Speech
                         @ Trading Crypto
                         @ Trading Stocks
                         @ Transcription
                         @ Translation
               o
                    # Business
                         @ Assistants
                         @ Business
                         @ Chatbots
                         @ Chrome Extensions
                         @ Data Analysts
                         @ Data Cleaning
                         @ Email Generators
                         @ ETL
                         @ Headshot Generators
                         @ Marketing
                         @ Recruiting
                         @ SEO
                         @ Social Media
          +
               o
     * Certifications
          + Blockchain Certifications
          + Chatbots
          + Cloud
          + Cybersecurity
          + Data Science
          + Machine Learning
          + Natural Language Processing
          + Python
          + Robotic Process Automation
          + TensorFlow
     * Events
          + AI Conferences
          + Cybersecurity Conferences
          + Robotics Conferences
          + SEO Conferences
     * News
          + All
          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Artificial General Intelligence
          + Augmented Reality
          + Brain Machine Interface
          + Cybersecurity
          + Ethics
          + Futurist Series
          + Healthcare
          + Investments
          + Quantum Computing
          + Regulation
          + Robotics
          + Surveillance
     * Interviews
     * Thought Leaders

Artificial Intelligence

Physical Constraints Drive Evolution of Brain-Like AI

   Updated on November 26, 2023

   By
   Alex McFarland

Table Of Contents

   In a groundbreaking study, Cambridge scientists have taken a novel
   approach to artificial intelligence, demonstrating how physical
   constraints can profoundly influence the development of an AI system.

   This research, reminiscent of the developmental and operational
   constraints of the human brain, offers new insights into the evolution
   of complex neural systems. By integrating these constraints, the AI not
   only mirrors aspects of human intelligence but also unravels the
   intricate balance between resource expenditure and information
   processing efficiency.

The Concept of Physical Constraints in AI

   The human brain, an epitome of natural neural networks, evolves and
   operates within a myriad of physical and biological constraints. These
   limitations are not hindrances but are instrumental in shaping its
   structure and function. In the words of Jascha Achterberg, a Gates
   Scholar from the Medical Research Council Cognition and Brain Sciences
   Unit (MRC CBSU) at the University of Cambridge, “Not only is the brain
   great at solving complex problems, it does so while using very little
   energy. In our new work, we show that considering the brain's
   problem-solving abilities alongside its goal of spending as few
   resources as possible can help us understand why brains look like they
   do.”

The Experiment and Its Significance

   The Cambridge team embarked on an ambitious project to create an
   artificial system that models a highly simplified version of the brain.
   This system was distinct in its application of ‘physical' constraints,
   much like those in the human brain.

   Each computational node within the system was assigned a specific
   location in a virtual space, emulating the spatial organization of
   neurons. The greater the distance between two nodes, the more
   challenging their communication, mirroring the neuronal organization in
   human brains.

   This virtual brain was then tasked with navigating a maze, a simplified
   version of the maze navigation tasks often given to animals in brain
   studies. The importance of this task lies in its requirement for the
   system to integrate multiple pieces of information—such as the start
   and end locations, and the intermediate steps—to find the shortest
   route. This task not only tests the system's problem-solving abilities
   but also allows for the observation of how different nodes and clusters
   become critical at various stages of the task.

Learning and Adaptation in the AI System

   The journey of the artificial system from novice to expert in maze
   navigation is a testament to the adaptability of AI. Initially, the
   system, akin to a human learning a new skill, struggled with the task,
   making numerous errors. However, through a process of trial and error
   and subsequent feedback, the system gradually refined its approach.

   Crucially, this learning occurred through alterations in the strength
   of connections between its computational nodes, mirroring the synaptic
   plasticity observed in human brains. What's particularly fascinating is
   how the physical constraints influenced this learning process. The
   difficulty in establishing connections between distant nodes meant the
   system had to find more efficient, localized solutions, thus imitating
   the energy and resource efficiency seen in biological brains.

Emerging Characteristics in the Artificial System

   As the system evolved, it began to exhibit characteristics startlingly
   similar to those of the human brain. One such development was the
   formation of hubs – highly connected nodes acting as information
   conduits across the network, akin to neural hubs in the human brain.

   More intriguing, however, was the shift in how individual nodes
   processed information. Instead of a rigid coding where each node was
   responsible for a specific aspect of the maze, the nodes adopted a
   flexible coding scheme. This meant that a single node could represent
   multiple aspects of the maze at different times, a feature reminiscent
   of the adaptive nature of neurons in complex organisms.

   Professor Duncan Astle from Cambridge’s Department of Psychiatry
   highlighted this aspect, stating, “This simple constraint – it's harder
   to wire nodes that are far apart – forces artificial systems to produce
   some quite complicated characteristics. Interestingly, they are
   characteristics shared by biological systems like the human brain.”

Broader Implications

   The implications of this research extend far beyond the realms of
   artificial intelligence and into the understanding of human cognition
   itself. By replicating the constraints of the human brain in an AI
   system, researchers can gain invaluable insights into how these
   constraints shape brain organization and contribute to individual
   cognitive differences.

   This approach provides a unique window into the complexities of the
   brain, particularly in understanding conditions that affect cognitive
   and mental health. Professor John Duncan from the MRC CBSU adds, “These
   artificial brains give us a way to understand the rich and bewildering
   data we see when the activity of real neurons is recorded in real
   brains.”

Future of AI Design

   This groundbreaking research has significant implications for the
   future design of AI systems. The study vividly illustrates how
   incorporating biological principles, particularly those related to
   physical constraints, can lead to more efficient and adaptive
   artificial neural networks.

   Dr. Danyal Akarca from the MRC CBSU underscores this, stating, “AI
   researchers are constantly trying to work out how to make complex,
   neural systems that can encode and perform in a flexible way that is
   efficient. To achieve this, we think that neurobiology will give us a
   lot of inspiration.”

   Jascha Achterberg further elaborates on the potential of these findings
   for building AI systems that closely mimic human problem-solving
   abilities. He suggests that AI systems tackling challenges similar to
   those faced by humans will likely evolve structures resembling the
   human brain, particularly when operating within physical constraints
   like energy limitations. “Brains of robots that are deployed in the
   real physical world,” Achterberg explains, “are probably going to look
   more like our brains because they might face the same challenges as
   us.”

   The research conducted by the Cambridge team marks a significant step
   in understanding the parallels between human neural systems and
   artificial intelligence. By imposing physical constraints on an AI
   system, they have not only replicated key characteristics of the human
   brain but also opened new avenues for designing more efficient and
   adaptable AI.

   Related Topics:artificial intelligence
   Up Next

   DIRFA Transforms Audio Clips into Lifelike Digital Faces
   Don't Miss

   Zephyr-7B : HuggingFace’s Hyper-Optimized LLM Built on Top of Mistral
   7B
   Alex McFarland

   Alex McFarland is a Brazil-based writer who covers the latest
   developments in artificial intelligence. He has worked with top AI
   companies and publications across the globe.
   [logoUNITE230X30BLACK-1.svg]

You may like

     * DIRFA Transforms Audio Clips into Lifelike Digital Faces
     * Is Traditional Machine Learning Still Relevant? Is Traditional
       Machine Learning Still Relevant?
       Is Traditional Machine Learning Still Relevant?
     * Breaking Down the “State of AI Report 2023”
     * Image Generated Using Stable Diffusion-Robots Image Generated Using
       Stable Diffusion-Robots
       Midjourney vs Stable Diffusion: The Battle of AI Image Generators
     * From Internet of Things to Internet of Everything: The Convergence
       of AI &amp; 6G for Connected Intelligence From Internet of Things to
       Internet of Everything: The Convergence of AI &amp; 6G for Connected
       Intelligence
       From Internet of Things to Internet of Everything: The Convergence
       of AI &amp; 6G for Connected Intelligence
     * OpenAI Contemplates Joining the AI Chipmaking League

   ____________________

Recent Posts

     * DIRFA Transforms Audio Clips into Lifelike Digital Faces
     * Physical Constraints Drive Evolution of Brain-Like AI
     * 20 Best ChatGPT Prompts for Entrepreneurs
     * Zephyr-7B : HuggingFace’s Hyper-Optimized LLM Built on Top of
       Mistral 7B
     * 7 Ways Call Centers Use AI to Unlock Time for Their Agents and
       Customers

     * About Us
     * About Images.ai
     * Meet the Team
     * Our Charter
     * Press Tools
     * Contact Us

   Advertiser Disclosure: Unite.AI is committed to rigorous editorial
   standards to provide our readers with accurate information and news. We
   may receive compensation when you click on links to products we
   reviewed.
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Copyright © 2023 Unite.AI
     * Editorial Policy
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms and Conditions

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-W7MXCVW
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-44">
<text>
   Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TTNXHQDD

Social and sign up

     * Follow
     * E-news Sign-up

User account menu

     * Log in
     * Search

   Go to the home page
   IET logo

Main navigation

     * Home
     * News
     * Topics
     * E+T Magazine
     * Resources
          + Webinars
          + Whitepapers
          + Videos
     * Jobs

   Quick links:
     * Home
     * Categories
     * Article Types
     * News

   Artificial Intelligence
   Government And Politics
   Legislation And Regulation

US, UK and 16 other countries sign AI security agreement

   Open-access content Beatriz Valero de Urquía — Tue 28 Nov 2023
   Artificial intelligence concept - Credit: iStock

   iStock

   The UK has unveiled the world’s first global guidelines for making
   artificial intelligence (AI) tools ‘secure by design’.

   The US, Singapore, Australia, Chile, Germany, Israel and Japan were
   among the 18 nations that have signed a non-binding public agreement
   that aims to secure AI systems against cyber attacks.

   The document has been developed by the UK’s National Cyber Security
   Centre (NCSC) and the US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
   Agency (CISA), and endorsed by all G7 members. It was launched in an
   event in London, attended by more than 100 industry, government and
   international partners such as Microsoft, the Alan Turing Institute,
   and cyber agencies from the US, Canada, Germany and the UK.

   The guidelines set a ‘secure by design approach’, advising developers
   and organisations on the best practices for incorporating cyber
   security at every stage of the development process of AI algorithms.
   They focus on four key areas: secure design, secure development, secure
   deployment, and secure operation and maintenance.

   “Security is not a postscript to development but a core requirement
   throughout,” NCSC CEO Lindy Cameron said at the launch.

   The guidelines include advice such as the need to model threats to a
   company’s system, accounting for the growing dangers that come with
   growth, and the threat of future technological developments such as
   automated attacks. In addition, the document covers supply chain
   security, maintaining robust documentation, protecting assets and
   managing technical debt.

   When it comes to secure development, the plan advises that developers
   ensure the protection of the infrastructure used to support an AI
   system, including access controls for APIs, models and data. Moreover,
   models should be released “responsibly” – only when they have been
   subjected to thorough security assessments and making the most secure
   configuration the default for all users.

   The final section covers how to secure AI systems after they've been
   deployed, noting that companies continuously monitor systems, and the
   data that is entered into them, for signs of misuse.

   However, the guidelines do not address other concerns regarding the use
   of AI-generated content or the data chosen for its training.

   US secretary of homeland security Alejandro Mayorkas said: “We are at
   an inflection point in the development of AI, which may well be the
   most consequential technology of our time. Cyber security is key to
   building AI systems that are safe, secure, and trustworthy.

   “The guidelines jointly issued today by CISA, NCSC and our other
   international partners provide a common-sense path to designing,
   developing, deploying and operating AI with cyber security at its
   core.”

   The agreement is the latest in a series of initiatives – most of which
   provide general advice – pushed by governments around the world to
   ensure the ethical development of AI technologies. It follows US
   President Joe Biden’s signing of an executive order that would require
   AI developers to share the results of safety tests with the US
   government before they are released to the public. The order also
   directs agencies to set standards for that testing and address related
   chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and cyber-security risks.

   The Biden administration has been very vocal about its concerns over
   the rapid development of generative AI, and even unveiled a new AI Bill
   of Rights, which outlines five protections internet users should have
   in the AI age.

   The US and the UK were among the signatories of the Bletchley
   Declaration, described as a “landmark achievement” that signals a
   starting point in the conversations around the risks of AI
   technologies. The document has also been signed by representatives from
   the European Union and 28 countries, including China.

   UK science and technology secretary Michelle Donelan positioned the new
   guidelines as cementing the UK’s role as “an international standard
   bearer on the safe use of AI”.

   “Just weeks after we brought world leaders together at Bletchley Park
   to reach the first international agreement on safe and responsible AI,
   we are once again uniting nations and companies in this truly global
   effort,” she added.

   Last month, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak revealed the UK will launch an
   AI safety institute, following a similar announcement from the US.
     * Biden issues AI executive order to guard against the technology’s
       dangers
     * Sam Altman returns to OpenAI days after being fired
     * Countries sign ‘world first’ AI declaration at Bletchley Park
       summit

You may also be interested in...

   Books - Credit: Shutterstock Billion Photos

 Authors and publishers call for regulations to stop AI using copyrighted
works

   Tue 31 Oct 2023
   Artificial intelligence (AI) systems are using copyright-protected
   works “with impunity”, say publishing trade bodies, which are urging
   the government to act.
   Open-access content
   The Chancellor of the Exchequer leaves Downing St - Credit: Simon
   Walker / No 10 Downing Street is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND 2.0 DEED

 The Autumn Statement: All the engineering and tech announcements

   Thu 23 Nov 2023
   Reforms designed to speed up energy grid connections and public
   investment in the manufacturing and space sectors have been announced
   by Chancellor Jeremy Hunt in his Autumn Statement.
   Open-access content
   Sam Bankman-Fried - Credit: Shutterstock

 FTX’s Sam Bankman-Fried found guilty of fraud and money laundering

   Fri 3 Nov 2023
   The founder of one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in the
   world, who “thought that he was above the law”, defrauded clients out
   of billions of dollars.
   Open-access content
   A movie by AI now showing - Credit: Shutterstock

 Would you watch a movie written by an algorithm?

   Thu 23 Nov 2023
   Artificial intelligence has arrived on set, prompting writers to debate
   whether algorithms could (or should) create art
   Members'-only content
   semiconductor - Credit: Shutterstock

 Microsoft launches custom AI silicon chips

   Thu 16 Nov 2023
   Microsoft has unveiled the Azure Maia 100 and Cobalt 100 – the first
   two custom silicon chips designed by the company in a bid to reduce
   reliance on Nvidia.
   Open-access content
   Two people pointing at a screen with weather forecast - Credit:
   Shutterstock

 DeepMind’s AI accurately forecasts weather in under a minute

   Wed 15 Nov 2023
   The artificial intelligence (AI) tool predicted that Hurricane Lee
   would land in Nova Scotia nine days before it happened – three days
   earlier than traditional methods.
   Open-access content
   University of Edinburgh, Scotland - Credit: Pexels

 University of Edinburgh launches generative AI laboratory

   Mon 13 Nov 2023
   A research and innovation laboratory at the university will attempt to
   develop safe artificial intelligence (AI) solutions and systems.
   Open-access content
   TikTok logo on phone screen - Credit: Dreamstime

 Nepal bans TikTok, accusing the app of ‘disrupting social harmony’

   Fri 17 Nov 2023
   The government of Nepal has decided to ban the popular social media app
   TikTok.
   Open-access content

More from Artificial Intelligence

   Amazon logo - Credit: iStock

 Amazon to launch AI chip and chatbot named Q

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   Amazon has become the latest company to bet on generative artificial
   intelligence (AI) solutions, announcing the launch of a new AI chatbot
   as well as chips for AI solutions.
   Open-access content
   Children using computers - Credit: iStock

 Children aged 11 should be taught AI lessons at schools, experts say

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   Schools should require 11-year-olds to obtain a new alternative digital
   literacy qualification with an emphasis on AI and other modern digital
   skills, the British Computer Society has said.
   Open-access content
   What did Doctor Who foretell - Credit: BBC-Archive

 Heroes and villains – what did Doctor Who foretell?

   Thu 23 Nov 2023
   It was 60 years ago that Doctor Who first came to our screens,
   introducing a host of aliens with bizarre and advanced technology. But
   was this technology as outlandish as it first seemed – and since those
   early episodes, are we now catching up with science fiction?
   Members'-only content
   Smartphone with AI apps - Credit: iStock

 OpenAI creates a team to assess the dangers of generative AI

   Fri 27 Oct 2023
   The company behind ChatGPT will evaluate the possible “catastrophic
   risks” that could come with the unchecked development of the
   technology.
   Open-access content

More from Government And Politics

   green steel (Image credit: JAN LINDBLAD JR)

 UK must invest in green steel and protect its industry, ministers warned

   Thu 29 Jun 2023

   The government needs to step up and invest in green steel or risk the
   UK industry’s collapse, ministers have been warned.
   Open-access content
   Houses (Image credit: Dreamstime)

 Labour will take difficult choices on home-building, shadow housing
secretary says

   Wed 28 Jun 2023

   A Labour government will make the “difficult choices” when it comes to
   building more homes, said shadow housing secretary Lisa Nandy, as she
   accused ministers of being “afraid of the taboo” of the green belt.
   Open-access content

 Less than a fifth of Leave voters believe Brexit has ‘gone well’

   Thu 22 Jun 2023

   Less than one-fifth of Brexit voters believe it has been a success
   seven years on from the 2016 referendum, according to new polling.
   Open-access content
   E&amp;T

 The price of independence

   Fri 16 Jun 2023

   The UK's National Semiconductor Strategy has ambitious aims but not a
   lot of cash: going it alone is not a realistic option.
   Open-access content

More from Legislation And Regulation

   European Union headquarters - Credit: iStock

 EU agrees on new hydrogen regulation

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   The Council of the EU and the European Parliament have reached a
   provisional agreement on future hydrogen and natural gas market rules.
   Open-access content
   steel factory - Credit: iStock - Betoon

 Steel industry urges government to cut electricity prices to stay
competitive

   Thu 16 Nov 2023
   The government has been urged to reduce industrial electricity prices
   or risk the UK’s steel sector becoming uncompetitive with European
   manufacturers.
   Open-access content
   Female scientists holding a test tube against a UK flag - Credit:
   Shutterstock

 UK to loosen restrictions to register new chemical products

   Tue 14 Nov 2023
   The government’s post-Brexit chemical regulations are expected to
   reduce the “hazard” information that companies must provide to register
   chemicals in the UK.
   Open-access content
   Outline of a young girl with a compute - Credit: Foto 40163043 © Wallky
   | Dreamstime.com

 Ofcom unveils new rules to protect children online

   Thu 9 Nov 2023
   The government has issued the first draft codes of practice under the
   controversial Online Safety Act (OSA), which became law last month.
   Open-access content

More from Beatriz Valero de Urquía

   European Union headquarters - Credit: iStock

 EU agrees on new hydrogen regulation

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   The Council of the EU and the European Parliament have reached a
   provisional agreement on future hydrogen and natural gas market rules.
   Open-access content
   multiple rows of solar panels in a desert - Credit: Dreamstime

 UAE opens giant solar plant in Abu Dhabi desert

   Fri 17 Nov 2023
   Abu Dhabi has inaugurated one of the world’s largest solar projects
   ahead of the COP28 climate conference, which will be hosted by the UAE.
   Open-access content
   European union flags outside building - Credit: Shutterstock

 Europe to impose curbs on methane emissions

   Thu 16 Nov 2023
   A new law will apply methane emissions limits to the EU’s oil and gas
   imports from 2030.
   Open-access content
   Lava running down a volcano in Iceland - Credit: Shutterstock

 Iceland to impose new property tax to pay for lava barriers following
earthquake swarm

   Tue 14 Nov 2023
   Iceland will impose a tax on all house owners to fund the construction
   of lava barriers that aim to prevent damage from volcanic eruptions.
   Open-access content

More from News

   Amazon logo - Credit: iStock

 Amazon to launch AI chip and chatbot named Q

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   Amazon has become the latest company to bet on generative artificial
   intelligence (AI) solutions, announcing the launch of a new AI chatbot
   as well as chips for AI solutions.
   Open-access content
   London skyline - Credit: iStock

 Finance sector net zero plans could be stalled by UK’s ‘mixed messages’, MPs
warn

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   The government’s “mixed messages” on climate change could delay efforts
   by the financial sector to meet net zero carbon goals, MPs on the
   Environmental Audit Committee (EAC) have said.
   Open-access content
   European Union headquarters - Credit: iStock

 EU agrees on new hydrogen regulation

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   The Council of the EU and the European Parliament have reached a
   provisional agreement on future hydrogen and natural gas market rules.
   Open-access content
   Rough gas storage site - Credit: Centrica

 Britain’s largest gas storage facility switches on as cold weather strains
supplies

   Wed 29 Nov 2023
   Rough, which is the UK’s largest gas storage facility, has released
   stored gas into the grid to help the UK manage higher heating demands
   during the current period of cold weather.
   Open-access content

   View the discussion thread.

Join today

    In print
   current IET magazine cover - Uncredited

For IET members only

Apply online today!

   Become a member
   For more information, please follow this link.

    E-newsletters
   IET current newsletter.png - Uncredited

Straight into your inbox

Signing up to receive E+T News made easy!

   Sign up
   For more information, please follow this link.
   Go to the home page

   About us

   Newsletters

   Contact us

   Advertise with us

   E+T Jobs

   Facebook

   Instagram

   X (Twitter)

   YouTube

   Accessibility policy

   Anti-slavery policy

   Cookies

   Privacy policy
   IET logo

   © 2023 The Institution of Engineering and Technology.

   The Institution of Engineering and Technology is registered as a
   Charity in England &amp; Wales (no 211014) and Scotland (no SC038698).
     * Built Environment
     * Civil Engineering
     * Computing &amp; Comms Technology
     * Design &amp; Manufacturing
     * Electrical Engineering &amp; Electronics
     * Energy
     * Environment
     * Government &amp; Politics
     * Healthcare Technologies
     * Leadership &amp; Management
     * Transport
     * Other Things...

   (BUTTON) Close
   (BUTTON) Close

Follow us on social

   For the latest updates and more
     *   facebook
     *   twitter
     *   instagram
     *   youtube

   No description provided - Uncredited
     * Whatsapp
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Linked in

Mobile Social and sign up

     * Follow
     * E-news Sign-up

Mobile User account menu

     * Log in
     * Search

   IET logo
     * Whatsapp
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Linked in
     * Mail

Social and sign up

     * Follow
     * E-news Sign-up

User account menu

     * Log in
     * Search
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-45">
<text>
   Skip to main content

   (*) ( )

   Open menu Close menu
   Tom's Hardware
   [ ] Search Search Tom's Hardware ____________________ (BUTTON)
   RSS
   (BUTTON) US Edition
   flag of US
   flag of UK
   UK
   flag of US
   US
   flag of Australia
   Australia
   flag of Canada
   Canada

     *
     * Reviews
     * Best Picks
     * Raspberry Pi
     * CPUs
     * GPUs
     * Coupons
     * Newsletter
     * More
          + News
          + PC Components
          + SSDs
          + Motherboards
          + PC Building
          + Monitors
          + Laptops
          + Desktops
          + Cooling
          + Cases
          + RAM
          + Power Supplies
          + Peripherals
          + Overclocking
          + 3D Printers
          + About Us

   Forums

   Trending
     * Cyber Monday Tech Deals You Can Still Get
     * Intel Core i9-14900K
     * Nvidia GeForce RTX 4090
     * Lowest CPU Prices
     * Lowest GPU Prices

   When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate
   commission. Here’s how it works.
    1. PC Components
    2. GPUs

HBM4 memory to double speeds in 2026 — 2048-bit interface to revolutionize
artificial intelligence and HPC markets: Report

   News
   By Anton Shilov
   published 27 November 2023

   HBM3E set to have a long lifespan.
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Comments (0)
   AMD
   (Image credit: AMD)

   Today, TrendForce shed some light on the future of high bandwidth
   memory (HBM) technology and HBM4, specifically, which is expected to
   debut in 2026. This upcoming technology promises to extend its
   interface to 2048 bits and substantially change the architecture.
   TrendForce claims that HBM4 will significantly depart from traditional
   standardized DRAM technologies to more customized solutions.

   HBM4 will be the first to use a 12nm logic process technology for its
   base die, which foundries, not DRAM makers, will now make. This
   development will be a collaborative effort between foundries and memory
   suppliers, which essentially means a symbiotic relationship to advance
   high-speed memory technology. The increased performance and enhanced
   feature set of HBM4 are tailored to meet the demands of future
   processors for artificial intelligence (AI) and high-performance
   computing (HPC) from key industry players such as AMD, Nvidia, and
   Intel.

   The shift towards customization in the HBM4 market is a crucial aspect
   identified by TrendForce. This deviates from the traditional,
   standardized approach of commodity DRAM, which signifies a major shift
   in the industry. Buyers are increasingly seeking custom specifications
   and are exploring innovative options, such as stacking HBM directly on
   top of the system-on-chips (SoCs).

   This trend towards customization is expected to bring new design and
   pricing strategies to the HBM industry. As memory technology becomes
   more specialized and tailored to specific needs, it paves the way for a
   new HBM technology era characterized by innovation, specialization, and
   a departure from the one-size-fits-all approach today. This evolution
   in HBM4 and beyond indicates a dynamic and rapidly advancing landscape
   in high-speed memory technology.

   Another standout feature of HBM4 is its transition from the current
   12-layer (12Hi) stacks to more advanced 16-layer (16Hi) stacks,
   increasing memory module capacity. This transition, expected to be
   completed by 2027, will necessitate using new hybrid bonding techniques
   to increase layer count while maintaining the integrity of the memory
   stacks.

   But while HBM4 will revolutionize the memory market, it is still years
   away. As a result, HBM3E is going to have quite a long lifespan.

Stay on the Cutting Edge

   Join the experts who read Tom's Hardware for the inside track on
   enthusiast PC tech news — and have for over 25 years. We'll send
   breaking news and in-depth reviews of CPUs, GPUs, AI, maker hardware
   and more straight to your inbox.
   ____________________ [ ] Contact me with news and offers from other
   Future brands [ ] Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted
   partners or sponsors Sign me up
   By submitting your information you agree to the Terms &amp; Conditions and
   Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
   Anton Shilov
   Anton Shilov
   Social Links Navigation
   Freelance News Writer

   Anton Shilov is a Freelance News Writer at Tom’s Hardware US. Over the
   past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to
   supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab
   tools to high-tech industry trends.
   See more GPUs News
   More about gpus
   An image of a stripped-down RTX 3090 repurposed into a blower-style AI
   accelerator card.

   Desperate Chinese factories repurpose last-gen RTX 3090 GPUs into AI
   accelerators to skirt US export ban
   Curtis Priem

   Nvidia co-founder living eccentric off-grid lifestyle would have been
   worth $70B if he’d kept his shares
   Latest
   Ayaneo Retro Mini PC AM01

   Ayaneo’s Retro Mini PC AM01 uses older-gen AMD APUs - but its $149
   price is also cheaper than we expected
   See more latest ►
   TOPICS
   SK Hynix
   (BUTTON) See all comments (0)
   [ ]
   No comments yet Comment from the forums

Most Popular

   Google Drive users are reporting the loss of months of data

   By Aaron KlotzNovember 27, 2023
   Nvidia co-founder living eccentric off-grid lifestyle would have been
   worth $70B if he’d kept his shares

   By Mark TysonNovember 27, 2023
   Nvidia to become the world's largest semiconductor firm in 2023,
   according to TSMC chairman

   By Matthew ConnatserNovember 27, 2023
   Why Cyber Monday Might Be Your Last Chance for Years to Get a Great SSD
   Deal

   By Matt SaffordNovember 27, 2023
   Chipmaker TSMC's silicon waste recycled into shoes – $41 eco-friendly
   Ccilu branded footwear now available in the US

   By Mark TysonNovember 27, 2023
   15 of my favorite Cyber Monday tech deals you can grab for under $50

   By Matt SaffordNovember 27, 2023
   CES Awards lists two unreleased AOC ultrawide monitors — Porsche Design
   49-inch and 34-inch panels coming soon

   By Roshan ShaikhNovember 26, 2023
   Mini PCs get big Cyber Monday discounts — up to 26% off Minisforum
   Venus and Neptune Series

   By Roshan ShaikhNovember 26, 2023
   Cyber Monday Tech Deals Live: Latest PC Hardware, CPU, GPU, SSD, and
   Laptop Sales You Can Still Get

   By Avram PiltchNovember 26, 2023
   'GPUs still rule' asserts graphics guru Raja Koduri in response to
   custom AI silicon advocate

   By Anton ShilovNovember 26, 2023
   Memory maker SK hynix booms during AI frenzy — now controls 35% of the
   DRAM market

   By Matthew ConnatserNovember 26, 2023

   Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group
   and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
     * Terms and conditions
     * Contact Future's experts
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookies policy
     * Accessibility Statement
     * Advertise
     * About us
     * Coupons
     * Careers

   © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY
   10036.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-46">
<text>
   #Will Artificial Intelligence Bring About The End Of Smartphone Apps? -
   RSS

   Subscribe to newsletters
   Subscribe: $29.99/year
   (BUTTON) Sign In
   (BUTTON)
   BETA
   This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking here

More From Forbes

   Nov 27, 2023,08:36am EST
   How Ally Financial Is Delivering Business Value From Generative AI
   Nov 20, 2023,10:45am EST
   Quantum Artificial Intelligence Is Closer Than You Think
   Nov 20, 2023,09:00am EST
   Clorox Scapegoats Cyber Chief, Rewards Board After Crisis
   Nov 16, 2023,03:06pm EST
   AI Ethics Essentials: Lawsuit Over AI Denial of Healthcare
   Nov 7, 2023,03:12pm EST
   XREA And Information Services In The AI Age
   Nov 7, 2023,02:59pm EST
   How Should Corporate Boards Be Thinking About Generative AI?
   Nov 6, 2023,10:46pm EST
   AI In Healthcare: Four Key Directives From The Biden Administration
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   Edit Story
   ForbesLeadershipCIO Network

Will Artificial Intelligence Bring About The End Of Smartphone Apps?

   Jonathan Reichental, PhD
   Contributor
   Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
   I write about the role of technology in business and society.
   Following
   Click to save this article.
   You'll be asked to sign into your Forbes account.
   Got it
   Nov 25, 2023,03:20pm EST
     * Share to Facebook
     * Share to Twitter
     * Share to Linkedin

   Is it game-over for apps?
   getty

   When Steve Jobs announced the first iPhone in 2007, accelerating the
   smartphone revolution, the game changing device shipped with just a
   small set of Apple-produced apps. There was no software development kit
   (SDK) for third parties to develop apps yet and obviously no app store
   too. All that changed in early 2008 when the floodgates for app
   development were opened.

   Since then millions of smartphone apps have been built both for the
   iPhone and Android devices and their impact on society has been nothing
   short of revolutionary.

   But could the app economy be coming to an end?

   The recent explosion of innovation in artificial intelligence (AI) and
   particularly generative AI suggests that the potential conditions for a
   post-app era might be ahead. It could usher in completely new ways to
   engage with our devices and for enterprises to deliver products and
   services.

   The idea that the days of apps are numbered is not a new topic. In
   fact, for over a decade, observers have been suggesting that an app — a
   standalone software application on a screen of icons that must be
   located, opened, and engaged with — isn’t the most optimum experience.

   Today, some features on a smartphone don’t require these kinds of
   actions. You can read—and if necessary—respond to a pushed
   notification, thus avoiding the app altogether. Security can be managed
   by the device simply looking at your face. Siri and Android’s Google
   Assistant use voice commands to locate and produce results such as
   driving directions and playing music.
   MORE FROMFORBES ADVISOR

Best High-Yield Savings Accounts Of September 2023

   By
   Kevin Payne
   Contributor

Best 5% Interest Savings Accounts of September 2023

   By
   Cassidy Horton
   Contributor

   Smartwatches, which provide many non-app capabilities haven’t displaced
   the ubiquity of apps, although their remarkable popularity provides an
   obvious hint that users are open to new ways of engaging with
   technology.

   Despite these innovations, use of apps continues to be the dominant
   interface between users and their mobile devices.

   Smartphones are massively popular, with over six billion in use across
   the world. When using their mobile devices, American’s spend 88 percent
   of their time using apps. Games make up a large portion of that
   percentage, followed by business, education, and lifestyle uses.

   Apps have changed how we consume information and entertainment, buy
   things, and even how we find a date. For enterprises, apps provide a
   whole new channel for business. A company without at least one app is
   an outlier today and it may be an omission that is costing it real
   dollars in lost opportunity.

   How is it conceivable that the dominance of standalone, installed apps
   could be toppled from their leading position? One central answer comes
   down to whether there is a superior alternative.

   Smartphones and apps have consolidated popular needs into a single
   interface. The list is large and includes common capabilities such as
   getting directions, paying for things, playing games, consuming
   information, taking pictures, recording video, and a lot more. There’s
   no doubt this transition has been game changing. Pick up your phone,
   locate or download an app, and you’re in business.

   But what if you didn’t need to locate an app and instead your needs
   were simply met by a voice command, or better yet, your device learned
   about you and anticipated your needs, taking care of them for you?

   All of a sudden, apps might seem overly burdensome. With a device this
   smart, there would be no need to think about which app to use, locate
   and open it on a device, learn and remember how to use it, and then run
   through its many steps. In this way, a notable layer of overhead would
   be removed. Technology would melt into the background and become
   largely invisible.

   What I’m describing is a post-app world that is driven by increasingly
   capable AI. It’s a future where devices become a connection to your own
   personal assistant.

   Bill Gates, former CEO of Microsoft, has been writing about the future
   of software and the notion of software-enabled personal assistants,
   what he calls agents, for over 30 years. It’s only now that we’ve
   reached the enabling technology though advances in AI, that his
   predictions are beginning to be realized. In his words, “You won’t have
   to use different apps for different tasks. You’ll simply tell your
   device, in everyday language, what you want to do. And depending on how
   much information you choose to share with it, the software will be able
   to respond personally because it will have a rich understanding of your
   life.”

   In a post-app world, even smartphones may be redundant. Humane, a San
   Francisco-based startup, have developed the Ai Pin. It’s a small
   wearable device worn like a lapel pin, a little bigger than an Apple
   Airpods charging case, that responds to voice and hand gestures. It has
   no screen but can project text and images onto a person’s hand. The
   developers maintain it has all the features of a smartphone but without
   the screen. The Ai Pin provides us with a glimpse of what’s next and
   the possibilities of a completely new marketplace.

   There’s no question that what I’m positing here is disruptive. We live
   in a world of millions of apps and app developers that generate
   billions of dollars each year. A post-app, or software agent world will
   drive enormous and often uncomfortable change in such a large and
   complex industry. It will also require organizations to rethink and
   reinvent how they engage with customers. But as one age leads to
   another, more opportunities and innovation could abound.

   There’s a long way to go to fully realize this future, but when it
   happens, everything about how we interact with computers and the world
   will change.
   Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my
   other work here.
   Jonathan Reichental, PhD
   Jonathan Reichental, PhD

     * Editorial Standards
     * Print
     * Reprints &amp; Permissions

   ____________________ (BUTTON)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-47">
<text>
   #RSS 2.0 RSS .92 Atom 0.3

   PYMNTS.com » Feed PYMNTS.com » Comments Feed PYMNTS.com » AWS and
   NVIDIA Expand Collaboration to Deliver Generative AI Infrastructure
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate PYMNTS.com » JSON Feed
   PYMNTS.com » AWS and NVIDIA Expand Collaboration to Deliver Generative
   AI Infrastructure Comments Feed

   NCR Digital-First Banking Tracker October 2023 Banner Ad

   PYMNTS Logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   WATCH NOW | SUBSCRIBE
   (BUTTON)

     * ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
     *  PYMNTS TV
     * Today
     * B2B
     * Retail
     * Fintech
     * Digital Transformation
     * Crypto
     * EMEA
     * Tracker^® Reports
     * PYMNTS^® Data
     * Markets
     * More

Topics
          + Artifical Intelligence
          + Connected Car
          + Buy Now Pay Later
          + Banking
          + Cloud
          + Cross-Border Payments
          + Gig-Economy
          + Grocery &amp; Pharmacy
          + Healthcare Payments
          + Insurtech
          + Small &amp; Medium Businesses
          + Social Platforms
          + Subscription Commerce
          + Travel
          + TechREG^®
          + Real-Time Payments
          + Restaurants
          + More Topics

Featured
          + SEE ALSO:
          + Editor’s Picks
          + Opinion
          + CE100 Index
          + Working Capital &amp; Liquidity
          + Competition Policy International
            A PYMNTS Company

Stay Current
          +  Subscribe
          +  Become a Partner

AWS and NVIDIA Expand Collaboration to Deliver Generative AI Infrastructure

   By PYMNTS  |  November 28, 2023
    |  (Play) (Play) (BUTTON)

   Amazon Web Services (AWS) and NVIDIA have expanded their collaboration
   to deliver advanced infrastructure, software and services for
   generative artificial intelligence (AI) innovations.

   The partnership aims to provide customers with the necessary
   technologies for training foundation models and building generative AI
   applications, the companies said in a Tuesday (Nov. 28) press release.

   As part of the collaboration, AWS will be the first cloud provider to
   bring NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper Superchips with new multinode NVLink
   technology to the cloud, according to the release. These chips will be
   available on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances,
   allowing joint customers to scale to thousands of GH200 Superchips. The
   GH200 NVL32 multinode platform connects 32 Grace Hopper Superchips with
   NVIDIA NVLink and NVSwitch technologies into one instance.

   Additionally, NVIDIA and AWS will collaborate to host NVIDIA DGX Cloud,
   an AI-training-as-a-service, on AWS, the release said. This will be the
   first DGX Cloud featuring GH200 NVL32, providing developers with the
   largest shared memory in a single instance. DGX Cloud on AWS will
   accelerate the training of cutting-edge generative AI and large
   language models.

   The collaboration also includes Project Ceiba, where NVIDIA and AWS are
   designing the world’s fastest GPU-powered AI supercomputer, per the
   release. This supercomputer will feature 16,384 NVIDIA GH200 Superchips
   and will be used by NVIDIA for its own research and development in
   generative AI.

   AWS will introduce three new Amazon EC2 instances powered by NVIDIA
   GPUs: P5e instances for large-scale generative AI and high-performance
   computing (HPC) workloads, and G6 and G6e instances for a wide range of
   applications including AI fine-tuning, inference, graphics and video
   workloads, according to the release. G6e instances are particularly
   suitable for developing 3D workflows and digital twin applications
   using NVIDIA Omniverse.

   The collaboration also extends to software development, the release
   said. NVIDIA NeMo Retriever microservice offers tools to create highly
   accurate chatbots and summarization tools, while NVIDIA BioNeMo
   simplifies and accelerates pharmaceutical companies’ training of models
   for drug discovery.

   It was reported in September that NVIDIA has become the go-to company
   for computer chips used in AI processes. The company’s market value hit
   the trillion-dollar mark earlier this year thanks to high demand for
   its chips that are used to train generative AI models.

Recommended

   AWS and NVIDIA Expand Collaboration to Deliver Generative AI
   Infrastructure
   FTX Investors Add MLB and Formula 1 to Class-Action Lawsuit
   Latin American FinTech Clara Launches Payment Account in Brazil
   Report: Farfetch Founder José Neves Aims to Take Company Private
   See More In: AI, Amazon Web Services, artificial intelligence, AWS,
   cloud computing, generative AI, News, NVIDIA, PYMNTS News, What's Hot

Trending News

   Swift Launches Cross-Border Instant Payments
   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO

The Big Story

   This AI Pioneer Says the Tech’s Best Applications Are in Payments
   The Clearing House The Real-Time Payments World Map November 2023 Ad

Featured News

   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO
   The Year That Led to Farfetch’s Earnings Call No-Show
   More Men Than Women Order Groceries Online
   Peacock Pins Subscription Hopes on Instacart Partnership
   Q3 GDP Is Strong but Real Disposable Income Lags Spending Growth
   42% of Consumers With Retail Subscriptions Shop Less Often at Physical
   Stores

Subscribe

   ____________________
   [ ] PYMNTS Today
   [ ] Artificial Intelligence
   [ ] Cryptocurrency
   [ ] B2B
   [ ] Retail
   [ ] TechREG®
   [ ] Digital Transformation
   (BUTTON) SUBSCRIBE (BUTTON)
   Loading...

Partner with PYMNTS

   We’re always on the lookout for opportunities to partner with
   innovators and disruptors.
   Learn More
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-48">
<text>
   #alternate alternate National » Feed National » MoneyWatch Feed

     * Israel-Hamas War
     * Military Aircraft Crash
     * Rare Gigantic Rat
     * Wu-Tang Clan
     * CBS News Live
     * Managing Your Money
     * Newsletters

     * News
          +
               o US
               o World
               o Politics
               o Entertainment
               o HealthWatch
               o MoneyWatch
               o CBS Village
               o Technology
               o Science
               o Crime
               o Sports
               o Essentials
          +
               o
                    # 3 killed in Jerusalem after Israel and Hamas agree
                      to extend Gaza truce
                    # Henry Kissinger, influential and controversial
                      diplomat, dies at age 100
                    # Rep. George Santos remains defiant as House to vote
                      on expulsion this week
                    # EPA proposes rule to replace lead water pipes in
                      U.S. within 10 years
                    # Shane MacGowan, longtime front-man of The Pogues,
                      dies at 65
                    # Japan asks U.S. to ground Ospreys amid search for
                      crew in deadly crash
                    # Candy company uses cocoa harvested by child labor:
                      CBS News investigation
                    # Victim of "Scorecard Killer" identified as Iowa teen
                      49 years after murder
                    # 84-year-old man charged with wife's murder,
                      allegedly over vet bills
     *
     * Shows
          + cbs-mornings CBS Mornings
          + evening-news CBS Evening News
          + 60-minutes 60 Minutes
          + cbs-mornings-saturday CBS Saturday Morning
          + face-the-nation Face the Nation
          + sunday-morning Sunday Morning
          + 48-hours 48 Hours
          + cbs-reports CBS Reports
          + cbs-news-mornings CBS News Mornings
          + america-decides America Decides
          + prime-time-with-john-dickerson Prime Time with John Dickerson
          + cbs-weekender CBS News Weekender
          + the-takeout The Takeout
          + uplift The Uplift
          + eye-on-america Eye On America
          + the-dish The Dish
          + here-comes-the-sun Here Comes the Sun
          + person-to-person Person To Person
     * Live
          + [flyout-live-cbsnews@1x.png] CBS News Live
          + [flyout-live-baltimore@1x.png] CBS News Baltimore
          + [flyout-live-sanfrancisco@1x.png] CBS News Bay Area
          + [flyout-live-boston@1x.png] CBS News Boston
          + [flyout-live-chicago@1x.png] CBS News Chicago
          + [flyout-live-colorado@1x.png] CBS News Colorado
          + [flyout-live-detroit@1x.png] CBS News Detroit
          + [flyout-live-losangeles@1x.png] CBS News Los Angeles
          + [flyout-live-miami@1x.png] CBS News Miami
          + [flyout-live-minnesota@1x.png] CBS News Minnesota
          + [flyout-live-newyork@1x.png] CBS News New York
          + [flyout-live-philadelphia@1x.png] CBS News Philadelphia
          + [flyout-live-pittsburgh@1x.png] CBS News Pittsburgh
          + [flyout-live-sacramento@1x.png] CBS News Sacramento
          + [flyout-live-texas@1x.png] CBS News Texas
          + [flyout-live-cbs-sports-hq@1x.png] CBS Sports HQ
          + [flyout-live-inside-edition@1x.png] Inside Edition 24/7
          + [flyout-live-mixible@1x.png] Mixible
     * Local
          + Baltimore
          + Bay Area
          + Boston
          + Chicago
          + Colorado
          + Detroit
          + Los Angeles
          + Miami
          + Minnesota
          + New York
          + Philadelphia
          + Pittsburgh
          + Sacramento
          + Texas
     * More
          +
               o Latest
               o Video
               o Photos
               o Podcasts
               o In Depth
               o Local
               o A Moment With…
               o Innovators &amp; Disruptors
          +
               o Log In
               o Newsletters
               o Mobile
               o RSS
               o CBS Store
               o Paramount+
               o Join Our Talent Community
               o Davos 2023
     * Search
     * Search

   Watch CBS News
   (BUTTON)

   MoneyWatch

Sports Illustrated owner denies using AI and fake writers to produce articles

   moneywatch

   By Elizabeth Napolitano

   Updated on: November 28, 2023 / 5:47 PM EST / MoneyWatch
     *
     *
     *

   Sports Illustrated AI accusations (BUTTON)

   Sports Illustrated accused of passing AI articles off as human-created
   content 06:53

   The corporate owner of Sports Illustrated is denying a report that the
   famed publication produced articles written by artificial intelligence
   under fake author bylines, while noting that it has withdrawn the
   stories pending an investigation.

   Futurism reported Monday that Sport Illustrated had used AI to generate
   articles, as well as headshots and biographical information for
   fictitious writers. The technology publication also said that
   information about the purported authors "disappeared from Sports
   Illustrated's site without explanation" after Futurism approached The
   Arena Group, a New York-based media company whose other publishing
   brands include Men's Journal, Parade and TheStreet.com.

   The Arena Group said in a statement posted on social media on Tuesday
   that the company's "initial investigation" found that Futurism's report
   "is not accurate." The articles highlighted by Futurism were produced
   by human writers for AdVon Commerce, which The Arena Group said
   formerly had a licensing deal with Sports Illustrated to write product
   reviews and other e-commerce content.

   "AdVon has assured us that all of the articles in question were written
   and edited by humans," a spokesperson for The Arena Group said in its
   statement. "However, we have learned that AdVon had writers use a pen
   or pseudo name in certain articles to protect author privacy — actions
   we strongly condemn."

   Sports Illustrated is removing the articles produced by AdVon while The
   Arena Group continues its investigation, the media company said. Sports
   Illustrated has also ended its partnership with AdVon, according to The
   Arena Group, which didn't respond to CBS MoneyWatch's request for
   comment. Stephen Cannella, co-editor-in-chief of Sports Illustrated,
   did not respond to an inquiry sent to his LinkedIn account.

   Futurism said Tuesday that it stands by its report.

   "Arena's response is just so bizarre, as everybody's been pointing out
   online," the publication said in a statement to CBS MoneyWatch. "The
   idea that people writing product reviews for volleyballs would need to
   protect their identities with pseudonyms is obviously absurd. And as
   for AdVon telling Sports Illustrated that all its articles are written
   by humans? Its employees disagree, and we've got a new story coming out
   about that soon."

Need for guardrails

   Although The Arena Group denies using AI to produce stories for Sports
   Illustrated, the controversy underscores the question of how the media
   industry and other content producers should address the "lack of robust
   ethical guardrails" on using the technology, Benjamin Lange, an AI
   ethicist and research group lead at the Ludwig Maximilians University
   of Munich  told CBS MoneyWatch.

   "Journalistic ethics requires adherence to basic principles of honesty,
   trust, accuracy and objectivity," he said.

   Several publishers and other companies have had to retract articles
   this year that were produced by AI. In January, for example, CNET
   published corrections for a number of AI-generated stories after
   critics noted they were rife with errors. In August, Microsoft in
   August pulled a computer-generated travel guide from its website after
   readers pointed out that it recommended tourists in Ottawa, Canada,
   visit a local food bank.

   Shares of The Arena Group, which is listed on Nasdaq, plunged more than
   22% on Tuesday to $2.09 following Futurism's report. The company,
   formerly known as TheMaven, rebranded itself in 2021 and is led by Ross
   Levinsohn, who previously served as CEO of Sports Illustrated. Earlier
   this month, The Arena Group announced that it had merged with Bridge
   Media Networks, which produces news, sports and other content.

Trending News

   IOS Update For IPhones
   How to turn off iPhone's iOS 17 NameDrop feature
   Leather wallet with dollar bills in male hands on a blurred nature
   background.
   Here's how much more you need to spend to maintain your living standard
   gettyimages-1736291256.jpg
   Will CD rates go higher in 2024?
   ev-charging-sign.jpg
   EVs are less reliable than conventional vehicles, Consumer Reports says
   COMBO-EU-US-DISINFORMATION-ISRAEL-PALESTINIAN-CONFLICT
   Elon Musk says advertiser boycott at X could "kill the company"
   In:
     * Sports Illustrated
     * AI

   Elizabeth Napolitano
   elizabeth-napolitano-cbsmoneywatch.jpg

   Elizabeth Napolitano is a freelance reporter at CBS MoneyWatch, where
   she covers business and technology news. She also writes for CoinDesk.
   Before joining CBS, she interned at NBC News' BizTech Unit and worked
   on the Associated Press' web scraping team.

   First published on November 28, 2023 / 3:32 PM EST

   © 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
   Thanks for reading CBS NEWS.
   Create your free account or log in
   for more features.
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Continue
   Please enter email address to continue
   Please enter valid email address to continue

More from CBS News

How are colleges handling students' use of artificial intelligence?

Elon Musk says advertiser boycott at X could "kill the company"

Michigan to join effort to regulate AI political ads as federal legislation
pends

Amazon is using AI to deliver packages faster than ever this holiday season

   Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
     * Privacy Policy
     * California Notice
     * Do Not Sell My Personal Information
     * Terms of Use
     * About
     * Advertise
     * Closed Captioning
     * CBS News Live on Paramount+
     * CBS News Store
     * Site Map
     * Contact Us
     * Help

   Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes.

   Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and
   implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal
   Statement.

     * facebook
     * twitter
     * instagram
     * youtube

   View CBS News In
   CBS News App Open
   Chrome Safari Continue

   Be the first to know
   Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive
   reporting.
   (BUTTON) Not Now (BUTTON) Turn On
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-49">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate Global News Artificial Intelligence:
   Canada’s future of everything Feed Global News Feed

   Skip to Main Content
   Global News Home
   Share this item on Facebook Share this item on Twitter (BUTTON) See
   more sharing options

   (BUTTON) Full Menu
   Site theme toggle. Switch between light or dark mode [ ]
   Light Dark

Menu (BUTTON) Close

   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit Search

Topics

     * Watch
     * World
     * Canada
     * Local (BUTTON) Change location
     * Politics
     * Money
     * Health
     * Entertainment
     * Lifestyle
     * Perspectives
     * Sports
     * Commentary
     * Contests
     * Podcasts
     * U.S. News

TV Programs

     * Global National
     * West Block
     * The Morning Show
     * Video Centre
     * More…

Connect

     * Email alerts
     * Alexa
     * Breaking News Alerts from Global News
     * License Content
     * Contact Us

   National
   (BUTTON) Change Close (BUTTON) Change Close
     * Barrie
     * BC
     * Calgary
     * Durham
     * Edmonton
     * Guelph
     * Halifax
     * Hamilton
     * Kingston
     * Kitchener
     * Lethbridge
     * London
     * Montreal
     * New Brunswick
     * Okanagan
     * Ottawa
     * Peterborough
     * Regina
     * Saskatoon
     * Toronto
     * Winnipeg

   Global News Facebook Pages Global News Twitter Accounts Global News
   Youtube Channel Global News on Instagram Global News on LinkedIn Global
   News on TikTok Global News on Telegram

(BUTTON) (BUTTON) Close Local

your local region

   National
     * Barrie
     * BC
     * Calgary
     * Durham
     * Edmonton
     * Guelph
     * Halifax
     * Hamilton
     * Kingston
     * Kitchener
     * Lethbridge
     * London
     * Montreal
     * New Brunswick
     * Okanagan
     * Ottawa
     * Peterborough
     * Regina
     * Saskatoon
     * Toronto
     * Winnipeg

Share (BUTTON)

   Share this item on Facebook facebook Share this item on Twitter twitter
   Send this page to someone via email email Share this item via WhatsApp
   whatsapp Share this item on Flipboard flipboard (BUTTON) Share this
   item on LinkedIn linkedin Share this item on Reddit reddit (BUTTON)
   Copy article link Copy link

Search (BUTTON)

   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit search

Quick Search

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Trending Now

     *

     *

     *

     *

     *

     *

Comments (BUTTON) Close comments menu

   Want to discuss? Please read our Commenting Policy first.

   (BUTTON)
   Click to scroll back to top of the page Back
   to top

Artificial Intelligence: Canada’s future of everything

   Artificial Intelligence
   By Megan Robinson &amp; Mike Drolet Global News
   Published November 25, 2023
   16 min read

   If you get Global News from Instagram or Facebook - that will be
   changing. Find out how you can still connect with us.
   (BUTTON) Hide message bar
   Click to play video: 'Artificial Intelligence: Canada’s future of
   everything'
   11:49 Artificial Intelligence: Canada’s future of everything
   WATCH: Artificial Intelligence is on the brink of revolutionizing
   virtually every facet of human existence and Canada is on the leading
   edge, from healthcare and education to airlines and entertainment. For
   The New Reality, Mike Drolet explores some of the critical risks and
   the need for guardrails. And we take viewers inside how AI is improving
   our daily lives in ways that often remain undetectable – and certainly
   unimaginable just a few years ago.

   Blink and you’ll get left behind.

   The AI revolution is here and it’s changing the world faster than
   anybody could have predicted.

   Whether that’s for better or worse depends on whom you ask. What’s
   undeniable is this — the only limitation on how AI will transform the
   world is us.

   Geoffrey Hinton, the so-called grandfather of AI, issued warnings this
   year, sounding the alarm about the existential threat of AI.

   In May 2023, he appeared in an article on the front page of The New
   York Times, announcing he had quit his job at Google to speak freely
   about the harm he believes AI will cause humanity.

   “The way that we propose and strategize technologies rarely, if ever,
   turn out,” said Isabel Pedersen, author and professor at Ontario Tech
   University focusing on the social implications of emergent
   technologies.

   If Hinton is having a come-to-Jesus moment, he might be too late. Over
   100 Million people use ChatGPT, a form of AI using technology he
   invented. That’s on top of the way AI is already interwoven into
   practically everything we do online.

   And while Toronto-based Hinton is one of the Canadian minds leading
   this industry — one which is growing exponentially — the circle of AI
   innovators remains small.
   Geoffrey Hinton, known as the "Godfather of AI," leaves the stage after
   speaking at the Collision conference in Toronto on Wednesday, June 28,
   2023. View image in full screen
   Geoffrey Hinton, known as the ‘Godfather of AI,’ leaves the stage after
   speaking at the Collision conference in Toronto on June 28. THE
   CANADIAN PRESS / Chris Young

   So small, in fact, that while filming for this story in Toronto’s Eaton
   Centre, our Global News team happened upon Hamayal Choudhry, founder
   and CEO of smartARM, the world’s first bionic arm for which AI uses
   cameras to dictate movement.
   Advertisement

   Unknowingly, we asked him for an interview about the latest release and
   quickly learned, this was no ordinary shopper.

   Choudhry was in the store testing the glasses out for himself, curious
   to see if AI could be as big a disruptor in the world of glasses as he
   intends to make it in the world of prosthetics.

   “The same way those glasses have tiny cameras in the frames, that’s
   what we’re doing for our prosthetic arms,” Choudhry said, in an
   informal interview in the mall concourse.

   smartARM is just one of many examples of how AI is on the brink of
   revolutionizing virtually every facet of human existence. Canada is on
   the leading edge, utilizing what AI can do from healthcare and
   education to airlines and entertainment.

   There are inherent risks with AI and a lack of regulation and oversight
   in Canada, but overall, AI is improving our daily lives in ways that
   may often remain undetectable.
   Hamayal Choudhry, founder and CEO of Canadian company smartARM, is
   trying on the new Ray-Ban AI glasses using Meta technology. He's got
   dark hair and is wearing a dark, long sleeved shirt. Choudhry happened
   to be in the store when the Global News team for The New Reality was
   testing out the demo models and they got to chatting. View image in
   full screen
   Hamayal Choudhry, founder and CEO of Canadian company smartARM, tries
   on the new Ray-Ban AI glasses using Meta technology. Choudhry happened
   to be in the store when the Global News team for The New Reality was
   testing out the demo models and they got to chatting. Brent Rose /
   Global News

   Canada’s AI pioneering dates back to the 1970s, when researchers formed
   the world’s first national AI association.

   The Canadian Artificial Intelligence Association (CAIAC) formerly known
   as the Canadian Society for the Computational Studies of Intelligence,
   held its first “official” meeting in 1973.

   Its own mission statement says the CAIAC aims to “foster excellence and
   leadership in research, development and education in Canada’s
   artificial intelligence community by facilitating the exchange of
   knowledge through various media and venues.”

   It held its first annual conference in 1976, three years before the
   American Association for Artificial Intelligence was founded.

   “Conferences helped with collaboration and community-building,
   especially in those early days when remote work did not exist and even
   phone calls were expensive. When you look at the earlier proceedings,
   you will see a pool of talent that was leading the world in AI,” said
   Denilson Barbosa, current CAIAC president.

   The society has had different publications over the years, including a
   magazine and newsletters, first published in 1974.

   Its archive is a treasure trove of AI history. Its magazine debut in
   1984 talks about the potential and the influence of AI: “It is
   predictable that, awakening to their new place in the sun, AIers be
   distracted by sycophants, charlatans, and barmecides. Does the AIer
   grow frustrated with misconceptions about AI? You bet we do.”
   An excerpt from the September 1984 edition of the CAIAC Magazine. View
   image in full screen
   An excerpt from the September 1984 edition of the CAIAC Magazine.
   Canadian Artificial Intelligence Association

   Barbosa is a professor of computing science at the University of
   Alberta. Speaking by phone from Edmonton, Barbosa acknowledged that
   while Canada is slow to fully integrate AI, conservative in investing
   and implementing new technologies, he’s looking forward to the
   possibilities of AI in learning in school or for personal growth,
   including AI in classrooms.

   “The way we teach is fairly passive. Instructors have a huge influence
   on the success of students and control the pace of the process. It
   would be best to turn things around and let the students drive the
   process — they would work on their own, and when they got stuck, they
   would get help from an always-available AI,” Barbosa said.

   “Human instructors would be there to oversee the process and provide
   extra help to those who need it the most.”
   People take photos of an AI robot at the All In Artificial Intelligence
   conference on Sept. 27 in Montreal. View image in full screen
   People take photos of an AI robot at the All In Artificial Intelligence
   conference on Sept. 27 in Montreal. THE CANADIAN PRESS / Ryan Remiorz

   When most people think of AI, robots from movies — who can think for
   themselves — come to mind. That’s known as deep learning AI, found in
   the software of autonomous cars, facial recognition, mass surveillance
   and yes, some robots. It’s the AI that has the potential to think for
   itself and that scares a lot of people.
   Advertisement

   Then there’s the field where Canada is considered a leader: the broader
   technology of machine learning AI, which most people don’t realize we
   already use every day. It curates social media feeds, translates
   languages, detects fraudulent bank transactions, makes song and movie
   recommendations, and more. It’s driven by human input and our habits.

   Under the umbrella of machine learning, is Generative AI. It generates
   new content that mimics the data it was trained on.

   “Think of a program that has been trained with vast amounts of
   information, information that exists all over the Internet. And it
   develops an understanding and a representation of what this information
   is all about,” Deloitte Canada’s Jas Jaaj told Global News’ The New
   Reality.

   “Generative AI allows you to tune the information in a way where now
   you can actually consume the information the way you want to based on
   your values, based on your preferences. And then you can ask all sorts
   of questions to be able to get things like recommendations, things like
   suggestions of what you may want to have for a meal.”

   Most Canadians can’t tell what’s human or AI. A study released in
   October by the Canadian Journalism Foundation found that half of us are
   not confident in distinguishing the difference between social media
   content generated by AI compared with content created by humans.

   This unknown is leading to a lot of fear and misinformation about what
   AI is and isn’t doing. But whether we’re ready, it’s poised to change
   nearly everything we do and Canada is already playing a leading role.
   Deval Pandya, wearing glasses, sitting for an interview. View image in
   full screen
   Deval Pandya, vice president of AI engineering at Vector Institute, is
   passionate about the role of digital technologies in accelerating
   energy transition and Energy equity, as well as about building machine
   learning teams and products for social good. Brent Rose / Global News

   In 2017, the federal government put $125 million of funding into AI,
   the first country to have a national AI strategy. The funding helped to
   create three world-renowned institutes to guide development in AI
   research in Montreal, Edmonton, and Toronto, and put Canada among the
   top five nations in the field.

   “For me, the biggest risk is not adopting AI and realizing its maximum
   potential,” said Deval Pandya, vice-president of AI engineering at
   Toronto’s Vector Institute, one of the institutes founded in 2017.
   “AI is a transformative technology that is going to make [the] world a
   much better place and help us solve some of the most pressing
   challenges as a society that we face right now.”

   He’s personally bet on Canada’s future. Pandya, originally from India,
   joined Vector Institute nearly three years ago, after working in the
   U.S.

   “I think it’s very bright. And if it wasn’t bright, I wouldn’t move to
   Canada,” Pandya said.

   Vector Institute is an independent non-profit dedicated to AI research.
   It has partnerships with 20 university programs in Ontario with
   training focused on AI, providing startups with a steady stream of new
   workers.

   “Last year, we graduated more than a thousand Vector-recognized master
   students. And what is very impressive is that 90 per cent of the
   students stay in Canada, in Ontario, after they graduate,” Pandya said.
   Jas Jaaj is sitting at a table during an interview. View image in full
   screen
   Jas Jaaj, Deloitte Canada’s managing partner of AI and data, oversees a
   team of AI strategists, data scientists, machine learning engineers,
   data engineers, and risk specialists. Brent Rose / Global News

   You don’t have to look far from the Vector Institute to see AI’s
   evolution.

   Jas Jaaj, a managing partner at Deloitte in Toronto who focuses on AI
   and data, believes AI will be to the 21st century what the steam engine
   was to the 18th century, what electricity was to the 19th century, and
   what personal computers were to the 20th century.

   “You know what really happened in all of these major developments?
   Every major industry changed, societies changed,” Jaaj said.

   Professional services firms like Deloitte help companies find the next
   big thing. And these days, it doesn’t get bigger than AI.

   Global News got an exclusive look at one of the ways AI will change
   health care. It’s an AI nurse, assigned to newly discharged patients to
   help track their recovery care plan and progress.
   Advertisement

   It was created in partnership between Deloitte and The Ottawa Hospital
   and received positive feedback when it was rolled out in the testing
   phase.
   This virtual nurse, powered by AI, was designed in partnership between
   Deloitte Canada and The Ottawa Hospital. It will follow up on post-op
   requirements with patients at home — a time-intensive yet necessary
   task. When a complex medical problem is flagged a human nurse steps in.
   View image in full screen
   This virtual nurse, powered by AI, was designed in partnership between
   Deloitte Canada and The Ottawa Hospital. It will follow up on post-op
   requirements with patients at home — a time-intensive yet necessary
   task. When a complex medical problem is flagged a human nurse steps in.
   The Ottawa Hospital, Deloitte Canada

   Each AI nurse is unique to the patient. It has the information it
   requires to converse with a patient about their care and its skin tone,
   even the language and dialect it speaks, can be altered to put a
   patient at ease.

   During the demo for Global News, the AI nurse asked: “Regarding your
   post-discharge medications, Tenzin and Lasix, do you have any questions
   or concerns about them, how to take them or any potential side
   effects?”

   The responses given by the patient trigger another series of questions.
   It will ask if you’ve weighed yourself, how you’re feeling, and more,
   as a way to ensure post-op instructions are being followed. And if it’s
   interacting with a stubborn patient, it will push back.

   “They could be a bit insistent in terms of saying, ‘Hey, you know what?
   You haven’t done what you were supposed to do, so get on with it,’”
   Jaaj said.

   Most importantly, the AI nurse is smart enough to flag problems for a
   human nurse or doctor to intercede.

   The goal of the AI nurse isn’t to replace human nurses, it’s to take
   tasks off their already full plates and allow them to perform
   higher-value work with more time. It can also lower readmission rates.
   Jaaj predicts 100 per cent of Canadian hospitals will begin to use AI
   in some way within the next few years.

   Regardless of the goal, it doesn’t stop one of the biggest concerns
   about progress in integrating AI into the Canadian workforce: job
   losses.

   “This is a hot topic in terms of the anxiety that some people have,”
   Jaaj said. “The way to think about it is not in a way by which it will
   replace workers. Rather, it will reshape the workforce as we move
   forward.”
   Bruce Stamm, managing director of enterprise data and artificial
   intelligence at Air Canada, says the airline is using AI to optimize
   its flight scheduling. Next year, it hopes to also integrate AI into
   the maintenance schedule. View image in full screen
   Bruce Stamm, managing director of enterprise data and artificial
   intelligence at Air Canada, says the airline is using AI to optimize
   its flight scheduling. Next year, it hopes to also integrate AI into
   the maintenance schedule. Brent Rose / Global News

   While progress will have its casualties, Canada is very much in a
   position of relying on human input to use AI. AI can take on
   time-consuming tasks, freeing us up to solve more complicated problems.

   That’s what Air Canada is doing, on a mission to overhaul and
   streamline its entire company by taking advantage of the power and
   efficiency AI creates. Its biggest challenge is tackling the thing we
   all hate most: delays.

   “In terms of the complexity of getting our passengers safely to where
   they want to be on time, a lot of things have to go right,” said Bruce
   Stamm, Air Canada’s managing director of enterprise data and artificial
   intelligence.

   “There are literally 60 things which need to go right for an aircraft
   to land on time. Only 30 of those do we actually control as an
   airline.”

   When it works, the chaos of air travel seems like a synchronized
   symphony in the sky. Canada’s largest air carrier is timing the
   takeoffs and landings of more than 1,100 daily flights in such a way
   that 140,000 passengers get to where they want to be unhindered by
   delays or lost bags.

   But the truth is, frustrations are all too common. Even a 10-minute
   delay of a flight at the beginning of the day can cause a ripple
   effect.

   Nearly 28 per cent of Air Canada flights, or more than 8,700, landed
   late in October 2023, placing the company ninth out of 10 airlines on
   the continent in on-time performance, according to aviation data
   company Cirium.
   Air Canada Scheduling Optimizer View image in full screen
   Canada’s largest air carrier is timing the takeoffs and landings of
   more than 1,100 daily flights in such a way that 140,000 passengers get
   to where they want to be unhindered by delays or lost bags. But the
   truth is, frustrations are all too common. Air Canada is hoping the use
   of AI will help. Brent Rose / Global News

   In late October, Stamm’s team started using AI to optimize its
   scheduling and predict delays. The program uses historical data and
   looks at scheduling three to five years in advance. Instead of the old
   way of doing things, using theoretical predictions about flight times,
   cleaning, maintenance, and more, Air Canada is able to devise a more
   accurate schedule.
   Advertisement

   Global News got a first look at the company’s Montreal headquarters.

   The software doesn’t seem like much — coloured boxes on a screen — but
   it churns through massive amounts of data, faster and more efficiently
   than a person could.

   “AI and data are going to be part of our DNA just to do a lot more
   effective decision-making,” Stamm said.

   Next year, Air Canada plans to use AI to modernize its maintenance
   schedule for its fleet of about 200 planes. It will take into
   consideration where planes and mechanics are located, ordering time for
   parts, and more. The best part? What currently takes people weeks to do
   will soon be done in about 15 minutes, allowing for work a computer
   can’t do to become the priority.

   “Air Canada is embracing this, leveraging this to the better of our
   employees’ experience and ultimately our passengers’ experience,” Stamm
   said. “It’s awesome. And it’s also fun.”
   Hamayal Choudhry, founder and CEO of Toronto-based smartARM, started
   the company about four years ago, after winning a 2018 competition
   beating out 50,000 other inventors. View image in full screen
   Hamayal Choudhry, founder and CEO of Toronto-based smartARM, started
   the company about four years ago, after winning a 2018 competition
   beating out 50,000 other inventors. Brent Rose / Global News

   While Canada’s largest corporations are harnessing new technology,
   small startups are also launching very quickly. In the last year,
   hundreds of Canadian AI startups have hit the market.

   A couple of weeks after Global News met Choudhry, he and smartARM
   co-founder Evan Neff, invited the Global News’ crew to their Toronto
   office, a small area in a coworking building east of downtown, which
   also holds their first prototypes.

   Choudhry started smartARM about four years ago, shortly after beating
   out 50,000 other inventors at a competition sponsored by Microsoft in
   2018. He had learned that prosthetics were either cheap but clunky, or
   functional but expensive.

   Neff tells Global News, smartARM’s goal is to enhance autonomy and
   accessibility in the prosthetic space.
   Hamayal Choudhry (left) and Evan Neff (right) holding smartARM
   prototypes. The startup is dedicated to empowering people with limb
   differences. View image in full screen
   Hamayal Choudhry (left) and Evan Neff (right) holding smartARM
   prototypes. The startup is dedicated to empowering people with limb
   differences. smartARM

   Choudhry and Neff aren’t specifying their price point yet, Neff said
   current market prices range from about $30,000 to $200,000 making
   high-quality prosthetics inaccessible to roughly 95 per cent of the
   upper-limb different community.

   “We aim to change this,” Neff said.

   “For those with insurance or funding, smartARM will remain affordable,
   minimizing out-of-pocket expenses. For others, we’re pricing smartARM
   comparably to a smartphone or laptop, not a car.”

   smartARM set out to design something affordable and remarkable.

   It mimics human tendencies, like hand-eye coordination, holding items,
   carrying heavy objects and lifting delicate ones. Using AI, Choudry
   said the prosthesis will inherently “know” how to handle something —
   “just like the way you would look at an object … and grab it. You won’t
   necessarily think about how you wrap your fingers around it.”

   smartARM isn’t for sale yet, with regulatory certifications and
   approvals pending. In the meantime, Choudhry and Neff are testing it on
   people with a limb difference, including former NFL player Shaquem
   Griffin.
   In May 2023, smartARM announced a partnership with former NFL player
   Shaquem Griffin. View image in full screen
   In May 2023, smartARM announced a partnership with former NFL player
   Shaquem Griffin. smartARM / Shaquem Griffin

   Griffin was born with a rare condition forcing the amputation of his
   left hand when he was four years old. He made NFL history when he was
   drafted by the Seattle Seahawks in 2018 and went on to play for the
   Miami Dolphins before retiring in 2022 after four seasons in the
   league.

   Choudhry sent a private message to Griffin on Instagram late last year
   and it wasn’t long before Choudhry and Neff travelled to meet Griffin
   and his mother.
   Advertisement

   The first time he put on a smartARM and interacted with it, they were
   sitting down for dinner at a restaurant.

   Choudhry recalls Griffin repeatedly picking up and putting down a glass
   of water, taking a drink, and passing it to different people at the
   table. Choudhry and Neff witnessed Griffin use his left hand for the
   first time as an adult.

   “Shaquem has proven that having a limb difference doesn’t mean that you
   are any less capable of greatness,” Neff said.

   “We want to stress that smartARM isn’t about necessity; it’s simply
   about empowering our users with more choices and independence. Watching
   Shaquem explore new possibilities with smartARM was a testament to our
   mission.”

   smartARM also made its New York Fashion Week debut in 2023, showcased
   by Griffin at the Runway of Dreams, highlighting inclusivity through
   fashion and beauty.

   “Just looking at their expressions and looking at how they interact
   with it so intuitively and naturally is inexplicably rewarding for us
   to see,” Choudhry said of the users testing smartARM. “You know, it
   makes coming in here and working every day not even really seem like
   work.”
   Isabel Pedersen sits for an interview with Global News' The New Reality
   at Ontario Tech University. View image in full screen
   Isabel Pedersen during an interview with Global News’ The New Reality
   at Ontario Tech University. Pedersen, a professor, author, and lab
   director, has more than 20 years of experience in researching AI and
   wearable technologies. Brent Rose / Global News

   Pedersen has been studying wearable technology for over 20 years. Even
   she is amazed at how fast AI has become embedded in our daily lives.

   “People went from never experiencing AI themselves to being able to use
   it on their phones, to use it on their laptops, use it at work, use it
   at home,” she said.

   “We’ve gone through this rapid process in a matter of weeks that in
   some ways other technologies took 100 years.”

   In addition to her role as a professor at Ontario Tech University,
   Pedersen is the founding director of the Digital Life Institute. It’s
   an international research network studying the social implications of
   emergent digital technologies.

   Pedersen said inventors are still developing and designing a future
   that hasn’t happened yet.

   “We have to be careful of techno-solution-ism. For me to say that
   you’re going to have a technology that is going to solve these very
   difficult problems — it won’t,” Pedersen said.

   “I do believe that we have to continue to move forward and try to
   design ethical outcomes at the earliest stages so that we can
   presuppose some of these harms that are ongoing that we might face.”
   Francois-Philippe Champagne View image in full screen
   Innovation, Science and Industry Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne
   gestures to a reporter as he responds to a question during a news
   conference on Oct. 24, 2023, in Ottawa. THE CANADIAN PRESS / Adrian
   Wyld

   As with everything related to new technology, there are persistent
   concerns that AI is moving much faster than the guardrails being built
   for it.

   The federal government has a framework for proposed legislation, but
   The Artificial Intelligence and Data Act won’t come into force before
   2025. Federal Minister of Innovation, Science, and Industry,
   François-Philippe Champagne, told Global News the government wants to
   get it done right.

   “There’s an acknowledgment that we need to deal with the concerns and
   the risks so that we can realize the opportunities. And in order to do
   that, we need framework, we need guardrails, so we build trust with
   people,” Champagne said.

   But trust can be tricky. Until the act becomes law, the government
   released a voluntary code of conduct in late September for generative
   AI developers. In the absence of regulation, it is supposed to guide
   organizations to come up with an environment to self-regulate.

   “It is incumbent on organizations and businesses themselves to not only
   wait for things like regulations and these types of directives coming
   in, but also go down the path of really understanding how they can
   self-regulate in the interim by educating themselves and learning about
   how this technology will really make a difference,” Jaaj said.

   “At the end of the day, you have to take a multi-pronged approach to
   not be left behind while everyone else is going to be doing this
   anyway.”
   Advertisement
   Journalistic standards (BUTTON) Comment Report an error
   © 2023 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc.

Credits

     * Top video of smartARM
       Brent Rose

     * TD Bank reports lower profit, revenues in Q4 but raises dividend
       Money
     * How Canadian companies are using AI as ChatGPT marks first
       anniversary
       Tech
     * St-Onge to testify at committee after Ottawa reaches deal with
       Google
       Canada

Report an Error

   (BUTTON)

   AdChoices

   Global News Home

   Global News Facebook Pages Global News Twitter Accounts Global News
   Youtube Channel Global News on Instagram Global News on LinkedIn Global
   News on TikTok Global News on Telegram

     * About
     * Principles &amp; Practices
     * Branded Content
     * Contact us
     * RSS
     * Newsletters
     * Notifications
     * Smart home
     * Advertisers Election Registry
     * Global News Licensing Requests
     * (BUTTON) Cookie consent

   ©2023 Global News, a division of Corus Entertainment Inc. Corus News.
   All rights reserved.

   Corus Entertainment Home

     * Privacy Policy
     * Copyright
     * Terms of Use
     * Advertise
     * Advertising Standards Terms
     * Corus Entertainment
     * Accessibility
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-4">
<text>
   #RSS sobre Technology alternate alternate

   _
   _

   _
   _

   Select:
     * - - -
     * España
     * América
          + México
          + Colombia
          + Chile
          + Argentina
     * USA

   (BUTTON)
   EL PAÍS
   Technology
   subscribe (BUTTON) HHOLALOG IN
   Technology
   _

   Artificial intelligence

Artificial intelligence guzzles billions of liters of water

The growing thirst of data centers, which use water to cool their equipment,
is beginning to cause tensions in the territories where they are located

   Artificial intelligence Columns of steam emerge from Google’s hyper
   data center in The Dalles, Oregon.
   Manuel G. Pascual
   Manuel G. Pascual
   Nov 15, 2023 - 15:55 CET

   The residents of The Dalles, a small town in Oregon, are living a
   paradox. Although the place is at the foot of the mighty Columbia
   River, its climate is practically desert-like: rainfall is scarce, and
   two summers ago the temperature reached 118 degrees Fahrenheit. The
   threat of water restrictions has been hanging over the town’s 15,000
   inhabitants for some time now. This is why they were not happy to
   learn, at the beginning of the year, that more than 25% of the total
   consumption of that valuable resource is going to a Google data center,
   which uses it to cool the thousands of computers that fill the
   infrastructure. According to local media outlet Oregon Live, the
   facility has nearly tripled its water use in the last five years, and
   the technology multinational plans to open two more data centers along
   the Columbia River. Environmentalists have already warned that this
   could affect the flora and fauna of the area, and even cause shortages
   among farmers in The Dalles.

   This is not an isolated case in the United States, a country that
   concentrates approximately 30% of all the data centers in the world.
   Arizona, Utah and South Carolina are well aware of the insatiable
   thirst of this type of infrastructure. They are also familiar with it
   in the Netherlands, where Microsoft was involved in a scandal last year
   when news broke out that one of its facilities consumed four times more
   water than declared in a context of drought. Or in Germany, where
   Brandenburg authorities denied Google permission to build a data center
   in the region, as a Tesla gigafactory was already consuming too much
   water.

   Things like streaming series, using online apps (those that are not
   installed on your phone) or saving photos in the cloud are possible
   thanks to a global infrastructure that consists of a large combination
   of data centers and more than a million kilometers of wiring. The
   growing complexity of the applications that are used every day demand
   more and more computing power, which translates into legions of
   computers running at maximum power day and night. Their energy
   consumption already amounts to at least 2% of the world’s total. The
   machines must be kept cool so they do not overheat: this can be done
   with ventilation systems similar to those used in personal computers,
   but cooling the processors with water is cheaper.

   The technological thirst is on the rise. Google’s water consumption
   increased by 20% in 2022, according to figures provided by the company;
   that of Microsoft, owner of 75% of OpenAI (the creators of ChatGPT),
   increased by 34% in the same period. The water resources consumed in
   the generation of electricity that powers the servers, or that of the
   hardware manufacturing processes, are not taken into account here.
   Amazon, which along with the previous two controls almost half the
   hyper data centers in the world (those with more than 5,000 servers)
   and whose subsidiary AWS leads the cloud computing market, chose not to
   provide any data for this story.

   The next most important company is Meta, the parent company of
   Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger, which used 2.7% more in
   2022. Meta plans to open a hyper data center in Talavera de la Reina,
   Spain, which, as EL PAÍS reported, will consume more than 600 million
   liters of drinking water annually. Company sources assure that the
   project is still on track, advancing at the pace set by the relevant
   regulations, although construction has not yet begun.

   How can we explain this sudden boom in water consumption by technology
   companies? Why is it lower for Meta or Apple than for Microsoft and
   Google? On November 4, 2022, ChatGPT — the chatbot that kicked off the
   race for generative artificial intelligence (AI) — was introduced to
   the world. Google already had similar large language models, such as
   LaMDA, in the experimental phase, but they were not available to the
   public, as these models must be trained before they star working. This
   requires legions of high-powered computers (GPUs) to process enormous
   amounts of data day and night for weeks or even months to find patterns
   in the texts that can then be used to articulate meaningful fragments.
   In the case of GPT-4 (the most advanced version of ChatGPT to date),
   that training took place in Des Moines, Iowa, something that the local
   residents knew nothing about until a senior Microsoft official said in
   a speech that it “was literally made next to cornfields west of Des
   Moines,” according to Associated Press.

   The additional effort to develop large AI models may have skyrocketed
   the water consumption of Google and Microsoft, the two technology
   companies that have invested the most in this technology. This is what
   researcher Shaolei Ren, associate professor of electrical and computer
   engineering at the University of California, Riverside, and specialist
   in AI sustainability, believes. “We cannot say it with certainty if the
   companies don’t provide concrete data, but the increase in 2022 was
   quite hefty compared to 2021, and we know that at that time they
   invested very heavily in generative AI, as well as in other AI-related
   services,” he explains via email. “AI has been integrated into almost
   all of Microsoft and Google’s everyday products, including their search
   engines.”

   Companies do not share data on how much extra water and energy it costs
   to train AI models compared to the usual consumption of data centers.
   “What we do know, because the director of one of these infrastructures
   confirmed it to me, is that the chips used in AI training consume much
   more than those of common servers,” points out Ana Valdivia, professor
   of artificial intelligence, government and policy at the Oxford
   Internet Institute, whose most recent research focuses on assessing the
   environmental impact of AI.

   At the end of the year, Ren and three other colleagues will publish
   research in which they offer an estimated figure of how much water it
   costs to chat with ChatGPT. For every 5 to 50 prompts (questions or
   instructions), ChatGPT consumes half a liter of water. The range of 5
   to 50 has to do with the complexity of the prompts. The estimate
   includes all the water used during the training of the model, which is
   the moment of greatest consumption, and that used by the machine to
   process the commands.

   The affected companies offer other arguments. A Google spokeswoman says
   that the large jump in water consumption in 2022 “corresponds to
   business growth.” Microsoft’s response is almost verbatim.

   Other large technology companies, such as Meta (2.7%) or Apple (8.5%),
   have also had an increase in water consumption, but significantly
   smaller than those of Microsoft and Google. Even though they are
   business giants and their activity has grown, their commitment to AI is
   not so big. Although this technology is present in their applications,
   they do not have large models similar to ChatGPT (or Google’s Bard, or
   Microsoft’s Copilot).

How water is consumed

   Data centers resemble industrial warehouses with multiple rooms. Each
   of them contains rows of racks — vertical units that house IT equipment
   — the height of a refrigerator. These rows are arranged in aisles, so
   that operators can manipulate the circuits of each machine.

   The servers emit heat, and the concentration of all that equipment in
   one place heightens this effect. Many data centers use cooling towers
   to prevent overheating, the same system used in other industries. It is
   based on exposing a flow of water to a current of air in a heat
   exchanger, so that the evaporation cools the circuits.
   Cooling systems are one of the key elements in data center design. In
   the image, the network of pipes that cools the servers in the data
   center of The Dalles. Cooling systems are one of the key elements in
   data center design. In the image, the network of pipes that cools the
   servers in the data center of The Dalles.CONNIE ZHOU

   This method is more energy efficient than electric coolers, but it
   involves a significant amount of water evaporating (i.e. not returning
   to the circuit). That is the water that appears as “consumed” in the
   technology companies’ records, explains Ren’s study. Depending on the
   outdoor wet-bulb temperature, a cooling tower typically consumes
   between one and four liters of water (up to nine in the summer) for
   every kWh of server power.

   Approximately 20% of the water used in cooling systems (that which does
   not evaporate) is discharged at the end of the cycle into wastewater
   treatment plants. “This water contains large amounts of minerals and
   salt, so it cannot be used for human consumption without being treated
   first,” explains Ren.

   The average consumption of a data center is difficult to determine.
   Those in colder climates need less refrigeration; in the same way, the
   demand for water is different in the hottest times of the year than in
   the coldest ones. They do need, however, to use clean, treated water to
   avoid blockages and the growth of bacteria in the pipes. When sea or
   reclaimed water is used, it has to be purified before it is put into
   the cooling systems. In the case of Google, almost 90% of its
   consumption in the U.S. came from drinking sources, according to Ren.

Location matters

   Data centers used to be in cities, but the growing energy needs of
   these infrastructures have pushed them out of the urban environment,
   which is unable to fulfill them. “They also need a safe location, one
   that has a stable supply of electricity and is not at risk of climate
   catastrophe. For all these reasons, in the last two decades they have
   gone to the outskirts,” explains Lorena Jaume-Palasí, founder of
   Algorithm Watch and The Ethical Tech Society and science and technology
   advisor to the European Parliament.

   “Modern data centers are very extensive. They are usually located near
   the desert or in agricultural areas, so they’re able to expand: it is
   common for server modules to be set up and moved, according to needs,”
   she says. A study by Virginia Tech researchers estimates that one-fifth
   of U.S. data centers consume water from basins with moderate or high
   water stress, areas where solar or wind energy is usually available.

   Aurora Gómez, from the Tu nube seca mi río (Your cloud dries my river)
   collective, which was born as a reaction to the mega center that Meta
   will build in Talavera de la Reina (Spain), sees a pattern behind these
   actions. “Companies usually look for unpopulated areas with high
   unemployment rates for their data centers, so that there is little
   social opposition,” she points out.

A problem with no prospect of solution

   The industry is clearly betting on integrating AI into more and more
   products and services. Is there a way to train AI models without
   consuming large amounts of water? Ren thinks not. “Electric dryers
   could be used to cool the computers, but they use a lot of energy, so
   the water consumption involved in generating electricity would greatly
   increase. On paper it is possible not to use water in the process, but
   I think it is very difficult,” concludes the academic.

   That is what the companies argue, as they immerse themselves in their
   plans to improve the efficiency of their systems. According to Meta
   sources, the new data centers that the company plans to develop
   especially for AI will use electric drying systems that do not require
   water (other than that necessary to generate electricity). According to
   a recent study by Javier Farfan and Alena Lohrmann, in which current
   consumption data and economic growth prospects are taken into account,
   in 2030 Europe will need more than 820 million cubic meters of water a
   year just so that people can use the internet.

   Some voices are beginning to call for a decrease in the use of digital
   tools. The underlying idea is the same as with transportation or meat
   consumption: the only effective way to reverse the climate crisis is to
   lower production and consumption levels. That is what degrowth theories
   maintain.

   Valdivia does not think that digital degrowth is the solution. “It
   seems to me that holding people responsible for this consumption is the
   wrong approach. Besides, data centers are much more useful and socially
   necessary than, say, electric cars. There are alternatives to mobility:
   you can leave the car and take the bus or the train. But there is no
   alternative to data centers.”

   Sign up for our weekly newsletter to get more English-language news
   coverage from EL PAÍS USA Edition

More information

   ChatGPT

The dirty secret of artificial intelligence

   Manuel G. Pascual

ChatGPT requires half a liter of water to have a conversation: The blue tech
conflict

   Lucía Velasco

Archived In

     * Oregón
     * Meta
     * Google
     * Microsoft
     * Apple
     * ChatGPT
     * OpenAI

   Adheres to The Trust Project More information
   If you are interested in licensing this content, please contact
   ventacontenidos@prisamedia.com

   _

newsletter

   Sign up to EL PAÍS in English Edition bulletin

Most viewed

    1. The absent parent syndrome and its impact on child development
    2. Roger Waters’ new wall
    3. Travis Kelce reveals the inside story of his romance with Taylor
       Swift: ‘Everybody around me telling me: Don’t f— this up!’
    4. Working more than 55 hours a week kills 750,000 people a year
       worldwide
    5. Shakira reaches deal with Spanish prosecutors to avoid going to
       prison for tax fraud

   Recomendaciones EL PAÍS
     * (BUTTON) Cursos
     * (BUTTON) Centros
     * (BUTTON) Francés online
     * (BUTTON) Inglés online
     * (BUTTON) Italiano online
     * (BUTTON) Alemán online
     * (BUTTON) Crucigramas &amp; Juegos

   (BUTTON)
   Cursos
   cursos
   Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial
   Maestría en línea en Inteligencia Artificial
   cursos
   Maestría en línea en Dirección de Empresas
   Maestría en línea en Dirección de Empresas
   cursos
   Maestría a distancia en Project Management
   Maestría a distancia en Project Management
   cursos
   Maestría en línea en Marketing Digital
   Maestría en línea en Marketing Digital
   Centros
   cursosonline
   Maestría en línea en Business Intelligence
   Maestría en línea en Business Intelligence
   cursosonline
   Maestría en línea en Comercio Internacional
   Maestría en línea en Comercio Internacional
   cursosonline
   Maestría a distancia en Dirección de Recursos Humanos
   Maestría a distancia en Dirección de Recursos Humanos
   cursosonline
   Programa en línea en Project Finance Internacional
   Programa en línea en Project Finance Internacional
   Francés online
   cursosingles
   Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día
   Mejora tu francés con 15 minutos al día
   cursosingles
   Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   Disfruta de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   cursosingles
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   cursosingles
   21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’
   21 días de prueba gratuita de nuestro curso de francés ‘online’
   Inglés online
   cursosingles
   Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día
   Mejore su inglés con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   cursosingles
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   cursosingles
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Italiano online
   cursosingles
   Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día
   Mejore su italiano con EL PAÍS con 15 minutos al día
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   cursosingles
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   cursosingles
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Alemán online
   cursosingles
   Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'
   Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas
   cursosingles
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   Evalúe su nivel y obtenga un certificado
   cursosingles
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Pruebe 21 días gratis y sin compromiso
   Crucigramas &amp; Juegos
   juegos
   Crucigramas minis
   Crucigramas minis
   juegos
   Crucigramas Tarkus
   Crucigramas Tarkus
   juegos
   Sudokus mini
   Sudokus mini
   juegos
   Sopas de letras
   Sopas de letras

   Recomendaciones EL PAÍS
     * (BUTTON) Cursos
     * (BUTTON) Centros
     * (BUTTON) Italiano online
     * (BUTTON) Francés online
     * (BUTTON) Alemán online
     * (BUTTON) Crucigramas &amp; Juegos

   (BUTTON)
   Cursos
   cursos
   Maestría en Energías Renovables. Clases 100% en línea
   Maestría en Energías Renovables. Clases 100% en línea
   cursos
   Maestría en Finanzas. Clases virtuales con servicio de consultas
   Maestría en Finanzas. Clases virtuales con servicio de consultas
   cursos
   Maestría en Derecho Penal y Procesal Penal. Metodología en línea
   Maestría en Derecho Penal y Procesal Penal. Metodología en línea
   cursos
   Maestría en Marketing y Dirección Comercial. Clases 100% en línea
   Maestría en Marketing y Dirección Comercial. Clases 100% en línea
   Centros
   cursosonline
   Maestría Oficial en Dirección de Empresas. Metodología en línea
   Maestría Oficial en Dirección de Empresas. Metodología en línea
   cursosonline
   Maestría en Educación Especial. Clases virtuales con servicio de
   consultas
   Maestría en Educación Especial. Clases virtuales con servicio de
   consultas
   cursosonline
   Especialidad en Género y Justicia. Clases 100% en línea
   Especialidad en Género y Justicia. Clases 100% en línea
   cursosonline
   Descubra un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación
   Descubra un completo Directorio de Centros de Formación
   Italiano online
   cursosingles
   Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día
   Mejore su italiano con solo 15 minutos al día
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   cursosingles
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   cursosingles
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   Francés online
   cursosingles
   Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día
   Mejore su francés con solo 15 minutos al día
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   cursosingles
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   cursosingles
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   Alemán online
   cursosingles
   Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'
   Las mejores oportunidades hablan alemán. Nuevo curso 'online'
   cursosingles
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   Disfrute de nuestras lecciones personalizadas, breves y divertidas.
   cursosingles
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   Obtendrá un diploma con estadísticas de nivel, progresión y
   participación.
   cursosingles
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   21 días de prueba gratuita. ¡Empiece ya!
   Crucigramas &amp; Juegos
   juegos
   ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos!
   ¡Disfruta con nuestros Crucigramas para expertos!
   juegos
   Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino
   Resuelve los últimos Crucigramas de Mambrino
   juegos
   Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel
   Juega a nuestros Sudoku para Expertos y mejora día a día tu nivel
   juegos
   Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS
   Juega a las nuevas Sopas de letras clásicas y temáticas de EL PAÍS
   _
   _

Inicia sesión o regístrate gratis para continuar leyendo en incógnito

   Regístrate gratisInicia sesión

   Suscríbete y lee sin límites
   Ver opciones de suscripción
   (BUTTON)
   HOLA
   Subscribe for € 1
     * My activity
     * My Subscription
     * My personal data
     * My newsletters
     * Rights and de-registration
     * Events and experiences

   logout
   (BUTTON)
   change contrast: (BUTTON)
   Buscar ____________________ (BUTTON)
   Select:
     * - - -
     * España
     * América
          + México
          + Colombia
          + Chile
          + Argentina
     * USA

   If you want to follow all the latest news without any limits, subscribe
   to EL PAÍS for just €1 the first month
   SUBSCRIBE NOW

     * International
     * U.S.
     * Economy And Business
     * Science
     * Health
     * Technology
     * Climate
     * People
     * Lifestyle
     * Opinion
     * Culture
     * Sports
     * EPS
     * Latest News

   Newsletter
   Follow on:
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-50">
<text>


   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5QFSQRT

     * World Health Organization Global
     * Regions
       World Health Organization WHO Regional websites
          + Africa Africa
          + Americas Americas
          + South-East Asia South-East Asia
          + Europe Europe
          + Eastern Mediterranean Eastern Mediterranean
          + Western Pacific Western Pacific

   ____________________
   When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to
   review and enter to select.
   Select language [Select language]
   Home

     * Home

     * Health Topics

     * All topics
     * A
     * B
     * C
     * D
     * E
     * F
     * G
     * H
     * I
     * J
     * K
     * L
     * M
     * N
     * O
     * P
     * Q
     * R
     * S
     * T
     * U
     * V
     * W
     * X
     * Y
     * Z

     * Resources
          + Fact sheets
          + Facts in pictures
          + Multimedia
          + Publications
          + Questions and answers
          + Tools and toolkits

     * Popular
          + COVID-19
          + Dengue
          + Herpes
          + Hypertension
          + Mental disorders
          + Top 10 causes of death

     * Countries

     * All countries
     * A
     * B
     * C
     * D
     * E
     * F
     * G
     * H
     * I
     * J
     * K
     * L
     * M
     * N
     * O
     * P
     * Q
     * R
     * S
     * T
     * U
     * V
     * W
     * X
     * Y
     * Z

     * Regions
          + Africa
          + Americas
          + South-East Asia
          + Europe
          + Eastern Mediterranean
          + Western Pacific

     * WHO in countries
          + Cooperation strategies
          + Data by country

     * Newsroom

     * All news
          + News releases
          + Statements
          + Campaigns
          + Events
          + Feature stories
          + Speeches
          + Commentaries
          + Photo library

     * Headlines

     * Emergencies

     * Focus on
          + Afghanistan
          + Cholera
          + Greater Horn of Africa
          + Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
          + Sudan
          + Ukraine

     * Latest
          + Disease Outbreak News
          + Situation reports
          + Weekly Epidemiological Record

     * WHO in emergencies
          + Surveillance
          + Operations
          + Research
          + Funding
          + Partners
          + Health emergency appeal
          + International Health Regulations
          + Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee

     * Data

     * Data at WHO
          + Classifications
          + Data collections
          + Global Health Estimates
          + Mortality Database
          + Sustainable Development Goals

     * Dashboards
          + COVID-19
          + Health Inequality Monitor
          + Triple Billion

     * Highlights
          + Data collection tools
          + Global Health Observatory
          + Insights and visualizations
          + SCORE

     * Reports
          + COVID excess deaths
          + World Health Statistics

     * About WHO

     * About WHO
          + Partnerships
          + Committees and advisory groups
          + Collaborating centres
          + Technical teams
          + Organizational structure
          + Who we are

     * Our work
          + Activities
          + Initiatives
          + Global Programme of Work
          + WHO Academy

     * Funding
          + Investment case
          + WHO Foundation

     * Accountability
          + Audit
          + Financial statements
          + Programme budget
          + Results Report

     * Governance
          + Governing bodies
          + World Health Assembly
          + Executive Board
          + Member States Portal

     * Home/
     * News/
     * item/
     * WHO outlines considerations for regulation of artificial
       intelligence for health

WHO outlines considerations for regulation of artificial intelligence for
health

   19 October 2023
   News release
   Geneva
   Reading time:

   The World Health Organization (WHO) has released a new publication
   listing key regulatory considerations on artificial intelligence (AI)
   for health. The publication emphasizes the importance of establishing
   AI systems’ safety and effectiveness, rapidly making appropriate
   systems available to those who need them, and fostering dialogue among
   stakeholders, including developers, regulators, manufacturers, health
   workers, and patients.

   With the increasing availability of health care data and the rapid
   progress in analytic techniques – whether machine learning, logic-based
   or statistical – AI tools could transform the health sector. WHO
   recognizes the potential of AI in enhancing health outcomes by
   strengthening clinical trials; improving medical diagnosis, treatment,
   self-care and person-centred care; and supplementing health care
   professionals’ knowledge, skills and competencies. For example, AI
   could be beneficial in settings with a lack of medical specialists,
   e.g. in interpreting retinal scans and radiology images among many
   others.

   However, AI technologies – including large language models – are being
   rapidly deployed, sometimes without a full understanding of how they
   may perform, which could either benefit or harm end-users, including
   health-care professionals and patients. When using health data, AI
   systems could have access to sensitive personal information,
   necessitating robust legal and regulatory frameworks for safeguarding
   privacy, security, and integrity, which this publication aims to help
   set up and maintain.

   “Artificial intelligence holds great promise for health, but also comes
   with serious challenges, including unethical data collection,
   cybersecurity threats and amplifying biases or misinformation,” said Dr
   Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. “This new guidance
   will support countries to regulate AI effectively, to harness its
   potential, whether in treating cancer or detecting tuberculosis, while
   minimising the risks.”

   In response to growing country needs to responsibly manage the rapid
   rise of AI health technologies, the publication outlines six areas for
   regulation of AI for health.
     * To foster trust, the publication stresses the importance of
       transparency and documentation, such as through documenting the
       entire product lifecycle and tracking development processes.
     * For risk management, issues like ‘intended use’, ‘continuous
       learning’, human interventions, training models and cybersecurity
       threats must all be comprehensively addressed, with models made as
       simple as possible.
     * Externally validating data and being clear about the intended use
       of AI helps assure safety and facilitate regulation.
     * A commitment to data quality, such as through rigorously evaluating
       systems pre-release, is vital to ensuring systems do not amplify
       biases and errors.
     * The challenges posed by important, complex regulations – such as
       the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Europe and the
       Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the
       United States of America – are addressed with an emphasis on
       understanding the scope of jurisdiction and consent requirements,
       in service of privacy and data protection.
     * Fostering collaboration between regulatory bodies, patients,
       healthcare professionals, industry representatives, and government
       partners, can help ensure products and services stay compliant with
       regulation throughout their lifecycles.

   AI systems are complex and depend not only on the code they are built
   with but also on the data they are trained on, which come from clinical
   settings and user interactions – for example. Better regulation can
   help manage the risks of AI amplifying biases in training data.

   For example, it can be difficult for AI models to accurately represent
   the diversity of populations, leading to biases, inaccuracies or even
   failure. To help mitigate these risks, regulations can be used to
   ensure that the attributes – such as gender, race and ethnicity – of
   the people featured in the training data are reported and datasets are
   intentionally made representative.

   The new WHO publication aims to outline key principles that governments
   and regulatory authorities can follow to develop new guidance or adapt
   existing guidance on AI at national or regional levels.

   Media Contacts

   WHO Media Team

   Email: [email protected]

   Related

   Regulatory considerations on artificial intelligence for health
     * Regions
          + Africa
          + Americas
          + Eastern Mediterranean
          + Europe
          + South-East Asia
          + Western Pacific
     * Policies
          + Cyber security
          + Ethics
          + Permissions and licensing
          + Preventing sexual exploitation
          + Terms of use
     * About us
          + Careers
          + Library
          + Procurement
          + Publications
          + Frequently asked questions
          + Contact us

   Subscribe to our newsletters
   Home
   Privacy policy
   © 2023
   WHO
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-51">
<text>
   #RSS 2.0 RSS .92 Atom 0.3

   PYMNTS.com » Feed PYMNTS.com » Comments Feed PYMNTS.com » Companies
   With AI-Driven Strategies Outcompete Peers, Study Finds Comments Feed
   alternate alternate alternate PYMNTS.com » JSON Feed PYMNTS.com »
   Companies With AI-Driven Strategies Outcompete Peers, Study Finds
   Comments Feed

   PYMNTS Logo
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   WATCH NOW | SUBSCRIBE
   (BUTTON)

     * ____________________ (BUTTON) Search
     *  PYMNTS TV
     * Today
     * B2B
     * Retail
     * Fintech
     * Digital Transformation
     * Crypto
     * EMEA
     * Tracker^® Reports
     * PYMNTS^® Data
     * Markets
     * More

Topics
          + Artifical Intelligence
          + Connected Car
          + Buy Now Pay Later
          + Banking
          + Cloud
          + Cross-Border Payments
          + Gig-Economy
          + Grocery &amp; Pharmacy
          + Healthcare Payments
          + Insurtech
          + Small &amp; Medium Businesses
          + Social Platforms
          + Subscription Commerce
          + Travel
          + TechREG^®
          + Real-Time Payments
          + Restaurants
          + More Topics

Featured
          + SEE ALSO:
          + Editor’s Picks
          + Opinion
          + CE100 Index
          + Working Capital &amp; Liquidity
          + Competition Policy International
            A PYMNTS Company

Stay Current
          +  Subscribe
          +  Become a Partner

Companies With AI-Driven Strategies Outcompete Peers, Study Finds

   By PYMNTS  |  November 28, 2023
    |  (Play) (Play) (BUTTON)

   The payments industry has been a latecomer to the financial technology
   revolution. Many companies still use legacy accounts receivable (AR)
   processes marked by an overwhelming reliance on manual procedures. Now,
   the industry is at a crossroads, facing a technological advancement
   that promises to leave no sector untouched: artificial intelligence
   (AI). The technology’s potential benefits read like an AR team’s wish
   list — and the reality is not far off. 77%: Share of CFOs who report
   that their AR teams are behind schedule in collecting payments on
   invoices, including many that are weeks or months behind and say they
   will never catch up

   AR is the lifeblood of any company. But for too many, economic
   pressures threaten its flow, elevating AR teams to the top of
   organizations’ priority lists. While AI is not without risk and must be
   understood and implemented with care, the upside of AI adoption for AR
   is increasingly difficult to deny.

   In this edition of the “Working Capital Tracker®,” we zoom in on how AI
   can help AR teams ease pain points so companies can thrive amid
   economic uncertainty.

AI Can Speed Payment Processing and Boost Efficiency

   Manual processing of AR tasks continues to create payment bottlenecks,
   with 40% of finance professionals pointing to manual processes as the
   biggest challenge inhibiting collection. By automating tasks in the
   order-to-cash process, AI can increase their speed and efficiency,
   taking the first step in helping organizations achieve a healthy bottom
   line. Companies can also increase AR teams’ productivity by off-loading
   routine and labor-intensive tasks to AI, such as data entry, compliance
   checks, invoice processing and collections, freeing human workers to
   pursue higher-value endeavors. 72%: Share of CFOs who say automating
   customer service in AR had a direct impact on cash conversion cycles by
   reducing payment disruptions

Enhancing the Customer Experience

   Making it easier for customers to pay is the first step in ensuring
   swift payment. AI-enabled virtual assistants and chatbots offer a 24/7
   self-service tool, allowing customers to access their transaction
   histories and make requests or file disputes. In the case of AR
   disputes contributing to payment delays, AI can accelerate resolution
   cycle time by identifying and assigning reason codes to each dispute
   and approving reductions automatically based on predefined criteria.

   AI’s ability to collect and draw upon vast reserves of customer data
   makes it a superior tool for creating tailored experiences for each
   customer. With generative AI, companies can customize customer
   communication plans, building better relationships to facilitate
   swifter payments. AI can also help companies increase customer
   retention by allowing AR teams to focus on providing the best quality
   of service to each customer.

Businesses Can Harness AI for a Better AR Strategy

   58%: Share of the most profitable companies since the pandemic’s onset
   that increased their investment AI initiatives One of the hallmarks of
   AI systems is their unique ability to draw information from a wide
   variety of sources and process large quantities of data, on which
   companies increasingly depend to formulate winning business strategies.
   By mining this data trove, AI can assist businesses in unearthing
   trends, patterns and relationships that can inform better
   decision-making optimally in real time.

   AI can also help predict outcomes for better collection strategies. By
   analyzing customer transactions, credit history and other financial
   data, AI can identify customers at risk of defaulting and help
   proactively create payment plans for them. It can aid in forecasting
   cash flow and model how procedure changes will affect the probability
   of getting paid by predicting invoice payment dates.

   About the Tracker

   The “Working Capital Tracker®,” a collaboration with Billtrust,
   explores how AI can assist AR teams in easing their specific pain
   points to thrive amid economic uncertainty.

Recommended

   Allbirds Looks to Amazon to Boost Demand
   Crypto Payment Firm ivendPay Unveils NFC-Enabled System
   Judge Rules Binance Founder Must Remain in US
   Progressive Takes Lead in Latest Provider Ranking of Insurance Apps
   See More In: accounts receivable, AI, AR, artificial intelligence,
   automation, B2B, B2B Payments, Billtrust, commercial payments, Featured
   News, News, PYMNTS Intelligence, PYMNTS News, Tracker Series, virtual
   assistants, Working Capital Tracker

Trending News

   Swift Launches Cross-Border Instant Payments
   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO

The Big Story

   This AI Pioneer Says the Tech’s Best Applications Are in Payments
   PYMNTS Connected Dining November 2023 Ad

Featured News

   Cross-Border Payments Complexities Force Focus on 'Customer
   Experience,' Says Citi
   Platform Basics Rule the Road, Says RVshare CEO
   The Year That Led to Farfetch’s Earnings Call No-Show
   More Men Than Women Order Groceries Online
   Peacock Pins Subscription Hopes on Instacart Partnership
   Q3 GDP Is Strong but Real Disposable Income Lags Spending Growth
   42% of Consumers With Retail Subscriptions Shop Less Often at Physical
   Stores

Subscribe

   ____________________
   [ ] PYMNTS Today
   [ ] Artificial Intelligence
   [ ] Cryptocurrency
   [ ] B2B
   [ ] Retail
   [ ] TechREG®
   [ ] Digital Transformation
   (BUTTON) SUBSCRIBE (BUTTON)
   Loading...

Partner with PYMNTS

   We’re always on the lookout for opportunities to partner with
   innovators and disruptors.
   Learn More
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-52">
<text>
   [p?c1=2&amp;c2=6035250&amp;cv=2.0&amp;cj=1&amp;cs_ucfr=0&amp;comscorekw=OpenAI%2CTechnology
   %2CArtificial+intelligence+%28AI%29] Skip to main contentSkip to
   navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          + View all News
          + World news
          + UK news
          + Climate crisis
          + Ukraine
          + Environment
          + Science
          + Global development
          + Football
          + Tech
          + Business
          + Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          + View all Opinion
          + The Guardian view
          + Columnists
          + Cartoons
          + Opinion videos
          + Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          + View all Sport
          + Football
          + Cricket
          + Rugby union
          + Tennis
          + Cycling
          + F1
          + Golf
          + US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          + View all Culture
          + Books
          + Music
          + TV &amp; radio
          + Art &amp; design
          + Film
          + Games
          + Classical
          + Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          + View all Lifestyle
          + Fashion
          + Food
          + Recipes
          + Love &amp; sex
          + Health &amp; fitness
          + Home &amp; garden
          + Women
          + Men
          + Family
          + Travel
          + Money
     * Search input
       ____________________
       google-search
       Search
       (BUTTON)

     * Support us
     * Print subscriptions

     [ ] Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us
     * The Guardian app
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Pictures
     * Newsletters
     * Today's paper
     * Inside the Guardian
     * The Observer
     * Guardian Weekly
     * Crosswords
     * Wordiply
     * Corrections


     * Facebook
     * Twitter


     * Search jobs
     * Holidays
     * Digital Archive
     * Guardian Puzzles app
     * Guardian Licensing
     * About Us

     * The Guardian view
     * Columnists
     * Cartoons
     * Opinion videos
     * Letters

   ‘How would you build an enterprise designed to gain as many of the
   benefits of AI as possible while avoiding these risks?’
   [ ]
   ‘How would you build an enterprise designed to gain as many of the
   benefits of AI as possible while avoiding these risks?’ Photograph:
   Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images
   ‘How would you build an enterprise designed to gain as many of the
   benefits of AI as possible while avoiding these risks?’ Photograph:
   Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images
   OpinionOpenAI

The frantic battle over OpenAI shows that money triumphs in the end

   Robert Reich
   Robert Reich

   Private businesses, motivated by profit, can’t be relied on to police
   themselves against the horrors unfettered AI could bring
   Tue 28 Nov 2023 14.01 CETLast modified on Tue 28 Nov 2023 19.10 CET
     *
     *
     *

   How do we gain access to artificial intelligence’s huge potential
   benefits – such as devising new life-saving drugs or finding new ways
   to teach children – without opening a box of horrors?

   If we’re not careful, AI could be a Frankenstein monster. It might
   eliminate nearly all jobs. It could lead to autonomous warfare.
   The real story of the OpenAI debacle is the tyranny of big tech |
   Courtney Radsch
   Read more

   Even such a mundane goal as making as many paper clips as possible,
   critics of AI argue, could push an all-powerful AI to end all life on
   Earth in pursuit of more clips.

   So, how would you build an enterprise designed to gain as many of the
   benefits of AI as possible while avoiding these risks?

   You might start with a non-profit board stacked with ethicists and
   specialists in the potential downsides of AI.

   That non-profit would need vast amounts of expensive computing power to
   test its models, so the non-profit board would need to oversee a
   for-profit commercial arm that attracted investors.

   How to prevent investors from taking over the enterprise? You’d have to
   limit how much profit could flow to the investors (through a so-called
   “capped profit” structure), and you wouldn’t put investors on the
   board.

   But how would you prevent greed from corrupting the enterprise, as
   board members and employees are lured by the prospect of making
   billions?

   Well, you can’t. Which is the flaw in the whole idea of private
   enterprise developing AI.

   The non-profit I described was the governing structure that OpenAI
   began with in 2015, when it was formed as a research-oriented
   non-profit to build safe AI technology.

   But ever since OpenAI’s ChatGPT looked to be on its way to achieving
   the holy grail of tech – an at-scale consumer platform that would
   generate billions of dollars in profits – its non-profit safety mission
   has been endangered by big money.

   Now, big money is on the way to devouring safety.
   AI doesn’t cause harm by itself. We should worry about the people who
   control it | Kenan Malik
   Read more

   In 2019, OpenAI shifted to a capped profit structure so it could
   attract investors to pay for computing power and AI talent.

   OpenAI’s biggest outside investor is Microsoft, which obviously wants
   to make as much as possible for its executives and shareholders. Since
   2019, Microsoft has invested $13bn in OpenAI, with the expectation of
   making a huge return on that investment.

   But OpenAI’s capped profit structure and non-profit board limited how
   much Microsoft could make. What to do?

   Sam Altman, OpenAI’s CEO, apparently tried to have it both ways –
   giving Microsoft some of what it wanted without abandoning the
   humanitarian goals and safeguards of the non-profit.

   It didn’t work. Last week, OpenAI’s non-profit board pushed Altman out,
   presumably over fears that he was bending too far toward Microsoft’s
   goal of making money, while giving inadequate attention to the threats
   posed by AI.

   Where did Altman go after being fired? To Microsoft, of course.

   And what of OpenAI’s more than 700 employees – its precious talent
   pool?

   Even if we assume they’re concerned about safety, they own stock in the
   company and will make a boatload of money if OpenAI prioritizes growth
   over safety. It’s estimated that OpenAI could be worth between $80bn to
   $90bn in a tender offer – making it one of the world’s most valuable
   tech startups of all time.
   skip past newsletter promotion

   Sign up to Follow Robert Reich
   Free newsletter

   Get Robert Reich’s latest columns delivered straight to your inbox
   Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online
   ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see
   our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and
   the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

   after newsletter promotion

   So it came as no surprise that almost all of OpenAI’s employees signed
   a letter earlier this week, telling the board they would follow Altman
   to Microsoft if the board didn’t reinstate Altman as CEO.

   Everyone involved – including Altman, OpenAI’s employees, and even
   Microsoft – will make much more money if OpenAI survives and they can
   sell their shares in the tender offer.

   Presto.

   On Tuesday, OpenAI’s board reinstated Altman as chief executive and
   agreed to overhaul itself – jettisoning board members who had opposed
   him and adding two who seem happy to do Microsoft’s bidding – Bret
   Taylor, an early Facebook officer and former co-chief executive of
   Salesforce, and Lawrence Summers, the former Treasury secretary.

   Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive, said he was “encouraged by
   the changes to OpenAI board”, calling it a “first essential step on a
   path to more stable, well-informed, and effective governance”.

   Effective governance … for making gobs of money.

     All goes to show that the real Frankenstein monster of AI is human
     greed

   The business press – for which “success” is automatically defined as
   making as much money as possible – is delighted.

   It had repeatedly described the non-profit board as a “convoluted”
   governance structure that prevented Altman from moving “even faster”,
   and predicted that if OpenAI fell apart over the contest between growth
   and safety, “people will blame the board for … destroying billions of
   dollars in shareholder value.”

   Which all goes to show that the real Frankenstein monster of AI is
   human greed.

   Private enterprise, motivated by the lure of ever-greater profits,
   cannot be relied on to police itself against the horrors that an
   unfettered AI will create.

   Last week’s frantic battle over OpenAI shows that not even a non-profit
   board with a capped profit structure for investors can match the power
   of big tech and Wall Street.

   Money triumphs in the end.

   The question for the future is whether the government – also
   susceptible to the corruption of big money – can do a better job
   weighing the potential benefits of AI against its potential horrors,
   and regulate the monster.
     * Robert Reich, a former US secretary of labor, is a professor of
       public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, and the
       author of Saving Capitalism: For the Many, Not the Few and The
       Common Good. His newest book, The System: Who Rigged It, How We Fix
       It, is out now. He is a Guardian US columnist. His newsletter is at
       robertreich.substack.com

   Explore more on these topics
     * OpenAI
     * Opinion
     * Artificial intelligence (AI)
     * comment

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Reuse this content

comments (…)

   Sign in or create your Guardian account to join the discussion

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * The Guardian view
     * Columnists
     * Cartoons
     * Opinion videos
     * Letters

     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle

   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us

     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters

     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs

   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-53">
<text>
    #AiThority » Feed AiThority » Comments Feed alternate alternate
   alternate

   AiThority
   Artificial Intelligence | News | Insights | AiThority
   ____________________

   AiThority AiThority - Artificial Intelligence | News | Insights |
   AiThority

   ____________________ Search
     * NEWS
     * INTERVIEWS
     * INSIGHTS
          + GUEST AUTHORS
          + AIT STAFF WRITER
     * AI RADAR
          + AI in MARKETING
          + AI in SALES
          + AI in HR
          + IT and DevOps
          + AI in Finance
          + AiThority.com Primers
     * SERVICES
          + Editorial
          + Lead Generation
          + Events
     * Subscribe
     * CONTACT US

   AiThority
   [bsfp-cryptocurrency style=”widget-18″ align=”marquee” columns=”6″
   coins=”selected” coins-count=”6″
   coins-selected=”BTC,ETH,XRP,LTC,EOS,ADA,XLM,NEO,LTC,EOS,XEM,DASH,USDT,B
   NB,QTUM,XVG,ONT,ZEC,STEEM” currency=”USD” title=”Cryptocurrency Widget”
   show_title=”0″ icon=”” scheme=”light” bs-show-desktop=”1″
   bs-show-tablet=”1″ bs-show-phone=”1″ custom-css-class=”” custom-id=””
   css=”.vc_custom_1523079266073{margin-bottom: 0px
   !important;padding-top: 0px !important;padding-bottom: 0px
   !important;}”]

AI And The Future

   AI Machine Learning ProjectsAssistive TechnologiesPredictive
   [Pooja-professional-photo-150x150.png] By Pooja Choudhary On Nov 29,
   2023
   Share

   Amazon has declared that it will invest $1.2 billion in retraining
   300,000 staff in preparation for the rising automation of its
   warehouses, which are already filled with equipment driven by
   artificial intelligence. Participation is voluntary under a program the
   business calls “Upskilling 2025,” which is aimed to educate staff on
   skills they may apply to work in technical jobs inside or outside of
   Amazon.

Is AI a risk or an opportunity for the future of work?

   To better assess the impact of AI on issues like gender parity, social
   justice, and other ethical and moral questions arising from its use in
   the workplace in developed and developing economies, this episode
   examines this question and explores what kind of research and policies
   should be considered.

When it comes to the effects of AI on the workforce, how prepared are we?

   Concerns about Artificial Intelligence (AI) seem to be most prevalent
   in the workplace today. However, questions over whether or not the
   development of AI poses “a threat or a promise” have been on the rise
   for quite some time. Should we be worried?

   In the future, AI will take over jobs that are boring or risky, freeing
   up workers to do things like creative problem-solving and empathizing
   that they are better at. Those who have occupations they enjoy going to
   each day can be more content with their lives.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.youtube.com/embed/kjBYmvcZRcM?wmode=transparent&amp;rel=0&amp;featu
   re=oembed

   Artificial intelligence (AI) can swiftly and correctly interpret vast
   volumes of data, allowing for more timely and well-informed judgments.
   The impact of AI extends across many fields and areas of life. Almost
   every aspect of our everyday lives will be influenced by artificial
   intelligence as this technology develops and improves.

   Human abilities are expanding, and age-old human pursuits are being
   upended, all because of the digital revolution. Code-driven systems
   have expanded to more than half of the world’s residents in ambient
   information and connection, presenting previously unimagined potential
   and tremendous risks. Will people be better off in the future as the
   spread of new algorithm-driven AI continues?

   Read: Top 15 AI Trends In 5G Technology
   Related Posts

   Salesforce And AWS Partnership
   Nov 29, 2023

   How should CFOs approach generative AI
   Nov 28, 2023

   AI-Enabled Plants By Hyundai
   Nov 26, 2023
   Prev Next 1 of 217

   Many people are needed to train and refine AI algorithms, which is a
   necessary step in the development of AI. As a result, positions that
   didn’t previously exist emerge. Machine learning engineers must create
   and monitor AI systems while AI ethics specialists guarantee AI is used
   appropriately. AI is not eliminating employment, but it is reshaping
   the nature of many professions.

The potential of AI

   Experts have projected that networked AI will both increase humans’
   efficacy and pose a danger to people’s freedom of choice and action.
   They discussed how computers may potentially match or even surpass
   human intellect and skills in a variety of domains, including but not
   limited to complex decision-making, reasoning, and learning;
   sophisticated analytics and pattern recognition; keen visual acuity;
   speech recognition and language translation; and so on. Communities,
   automobiles, buildings, utilities, farms, and corporate operations that
   use “smart” technology were touted as ways to cut costs, improve
   safety, and give people a say in shaping their futures.

   The potential of AI in medical diagnosis and treatment, as well as in
   assisting the elderly to have more independent and healthy lives, was a
   common theme among the more upbeat comments. They were also hopeful
   that AI would be able to help with public health initiatives that make
   use of the potentially enormous quantities of data that would be
   collected in the future years, on topics ranging from individual
   genomes to dietary habits. They also anticipated that AI would help
   bring about long-awaited shifts in both the official and informal
   schooling sectors.

Conclusion

   The advent of AI has opened up exciting new possibilities for
   productivity and creativity in the workplace, but it has also presented
   new concerns for individuals and businesses. Understanding the pros and
   cons of automation is crucial for preparing for the future of work as
   AI continues to develop.

   The advent of AI promises to usher in a new era of productivity,
   safety, and creativity in the workplace. While automation has many
   benefits, it also comes with risks that must be considered. These risks
   include job loss, stagnant or declining skill levels, and increased
   inequalities. The future of work may be productive and fair if we
   devise methods that take into account both the advantages and
   disadvantages of automation.

   Read OpenAI Open-Source ASR Model Launched- Whisper 3

   [To share your insights with us, please write
   to sghosh@martechseries.com]
   AI TechChatGPTfuture of artificial intelligencepotential of
   AIPrediction Series 2024
   Share

   [Pooja-professional-photo-150x150.png]
   Pooja Choudhary

   Tech savvy, data geek, AI &amp; ML enthusiast creating crave-worthy content
   for the tech domain. I have been fortunate to take my passion for tech
   blogging ahead and reach out to millions of readers like you. Come,
   let's consume high-quality AI content.

   Prev Post

   Daily AI Roundup: Biggest Machine Learning, Robotic And Automation
   Updates

   Next Post

   Perceiv AI Achieves HIPAA Compliance, Reinforcing Commitment to Data
   Security and Privacy
   You might also like More from author
   AI Machine Learning Projects

   Salesforce And AWS Partnership
   AI Machine Learning Projects

   How should CFOs approach generative AI
   AI Machine Learning Projects

   AI-Enabled Plants By Hyundai
   News

   AI And ML In Nuclear Reactor Physics
   Prev Next

   Comments are closed.

   Follow Us

   AiThority.com covers AI technology news, editorial insights and digital
   marketing trends from around the globe. Updates on modern marketing
   tech adoption, AI interviews, tech articles and events.
     __________________________________________________________________

Interested in our Customized Editorial Services?

   Quick Links
     * NEWS
     * INTERVIEWS
     * INSIGHTS
     * EVENTS
     * CONTACT US

   Visit Our Other Sites
   MarTech Series
   TechHR Series
   Global Fintech Series
   SalesTechStar
   iTechnology Series

   Follow Us

     * NEWS
     * INTERVIEWS
     * INSIGHTS
          + GUEST AUTHORS
          + AIT STAFF WRITER
     * AI RADAR
          + AI in MARKETING
          + AI in SALES
          + AI in HR
          + IT and DevOps
          + AI in Finance
          + AiThority.com Primers
     * SERVICES
          + Editorial
          + Lead Generation
          + Events
     * Subscribe
     * CONTACT US

   Brought to you by iTechnology Series
   For News and Announcements write to: news@martechseries.com
   For Sales, write to: contact@martechseries.com

   Copyright © 2023 AiThority. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy

   ____________________ 
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-54">
<text>
    #alternate alternate

   [tr?id=307743630704587&amp;ev=PageView&amp;noscript=1]

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-THJBSRW

   EURACTIV logo

   (BUTTON) Toggle navigation
     * [19.png] English
          + [19.png] English
          + [2.png] Deutsch
          + [4.png] Français
          + [3.png] Español
          + [8.png] Italiano
          + [5.png] Polski
          + [6.png] български
          + [7.png] Čeština
          + [10.png] Ελληνικά
          + [9.png] Hrvatski
          + [11.png] Română
          + [12.png] Српски
          + [17.png] Slovenský
     * Newsletters
     * Podcasts
     * Events
     * Jobs
     *

     *
     *
     * ____________________ (BUTTON)
       [loading.gif]
       Search

   (BUTTON) EURACTIV.com
     * The Capitals
     * The Capitals
     * The Brief
     * Ukraine
     * Intelligence
     * The Brief
     * Ukraine
     * Intelligence

     * ____________________ (BUTTON)
       [loading.gif]
       Search

     * News
          + The Capitals
          + The Brief
          + Agrifood
          + Economy
          + Energy &amp; Environment
          + Global Europe
          + Health
          + Politics
          + Technology
          + Transport
          + Ukraine
     * Newsletters
     * Podcasts
     * Events
     * Jobs
     * Intelligence

     * Login / Register
     * [19.png] English
          + [19.png] English
          + [2.png] Deutsch
          + [4.png] Français
          + [3.png] Español
          + [8.png] Italiano
          + [5.png] Polski
          + [6.png] български
          + [7.png] Čeština
          + [10.png] Ελληνικά
          + [9.png] Hrvatski
          + [11.png] Română
          + [12.png] Српски
          + [17.png] Slovenský
     *

     * Agrifood

Agrifood
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Agrifuels
          + Biotechnology
          + CAP reform
          + Food chain sustainability
          + Food labelling
          + Food safety
          + GMOs
          + Innovation in agriculture
          + Modern farming
          + Nutrition and health
          + Organic food
          + Pesticides
          + Precision farming
          + Science and Policymaking
          + Sustainable food systems
          + Sustainable meat

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + From politics to practice: Paving a path to EU’s pesticide
            ambitions
          + One Health approach: Time for implementation

Promoted Content
          + Primary Food Processors and the EU’s agri-food chain: driving
            sustainability and food security
          + Decarbonising European Fertilizer Production – Pathways to
            Sustainable Food
          + Empowering next generations through the power of whole grain
     * Economy

Economy
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Competition
          + Education &amp; Training
          + Euro Area
          + Finance
          + Fiscal Policy
          + Industrial Policy
          + Just transition
          + Labour
          + Regional Policy
          + Trade

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + European resilience and opportunities in the global economy
          + Financing the social economy

Events
          + 06 December - Media Partnership: Sustainable taxes and
            economic growth post-Covid – The role for European
            multinational companies

Promoted Content
          + Securing workers’ rights in the AI revolution
          + Access to payment systems under PSD3 needs to be inclusive,
            fair and unambiguous
          + Take us away from the fiscal edge: Europe needs investment now
            or will face deindustrialisation
     * Energy &amp; Environment

Energy &amp; Environment
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Air Quality
          + Biodiversity
          + Biomass
          + Buildings
          + Chemicals
          + Circular economy
          + Circular materials
          + Climate change
          + Coal
          + Electricity
          + Energy efficiency
          + European Green Deal
          + Fit for 55
          + Forests
          + Gas
          + Geopolitics
          + Heating &amp; cooling
          + Hydrogen
          + Industrial decarbonisation
          + Networks
          + Nuclear
          + Oceans
          + Oil
          + Packaging &amp; packaging waste
          + Renewables
          + Renovation Wave
          + Soils
          + Solar
          + Sustainable Packaging
          + Water
          + Wind

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + Conserving EU nature: Mitigating climate change and
            biodiversity loss
          + Forests, nature and carbon removals in Europe
          + Energy efficiency: Taking Europe to the next level
          + Heat pumps: Gearing up for the boom years
          + Lithium: Driving Europe’s future mobility

Promoted Content
          + Cementing Europe’s Future: Buildings for a Net Zero Age
          + Tackling the climate problem together
          + What Christmas trees can teach us about fair supply chains
     * Global Europe

Global Europe
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Arctic Agenda
          + Asia Pacific
          + Central Asia
          + Cities &amp; regions
          + Crisis Management
          + Defence and security
          + Development
          + Enlargement &amp; Neighbourhood
          + EU Africa
          + EU China
          + EU India
          + EU Russia
          + Europe's East
          + Global Europe Brief
          + Human rights
          + Latin America
          + Middle East
          + Multilateralism
          + Sanctions
          + Transatlantic relations

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + Rethinking the global order
          + The road to Georgia’s accession to the EU
          + EU-Latin America relations: shared values and missed
            opportunities
          + Kazakhstan’s constitutional referendum

Promoted Content
          + COP28: Defining our common sustainable future, together.
          + South Sudan: A Slam Dunk for Progress
          + Bridges of Trust: Hope and Cooperation in European-Ukrainian
            Municipal Partnerships
     * Health

Health
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Active ageing
          + Alcohol
          + Clinical trials
          + Coronavirus
          + Diabetes, Cancer, Hepatitis
          + Endocrine disruptors
          + Health literacy
          + Healthcare and austerity
          + Healthy citizens
          + Heart disease
          + Medical cannabis
          + Medical devices
          + Metastatic breast cancer
          + Personalised drugs
          + Pharmaceutical Industry
          + Pharmaceutical Market
          + Plasma
          + Sports
          + Tobacco &amp; Alternatives
          + Vaccination
          + Water and health

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + Transplantation in the EU: From the waiting lists to
            post-transplantation journey
          + The complexity and rewards of gene treatments for rare
            diseases
          + Medicine information leaflets: Paper, digital or both?
          + Hampered access to innovative cancer drugs in Spain
          + The threat of anaphylaxis in Europe, unmasked

Promoted Content
          + The human stories behind diabetes
          + Only complementary recycling and reuse systems will deliver
            viable packaging circularity in Europe
          + Cancer therapy value assessments need renewal to keep pace
            with rapid scientific innovation
     * Politics

Politics
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Elections
          + EU Council Presidency
          + EU Institutions
          + EU Reforms
          + EU UK relations
          + Justice
          + Migration
          + Non discrimination
          + Participatory democracy
          + Rule of Law

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + EU participatory democracy: bridging the gap between theory
            and practice
          + Talking about the EU elections
          + Inclusive budgets: giving everyone a seat at the table
          + EU-Latin America relations: shared values and missed
            opportunities
          + Liberals look to Europe’s future

Events
          + 30 November - European Political Party Views towards the
            2024-2029 EU Agenda

Promoted Content
          + Assault on the Rule of Law in Spain
          + Stronger cohesion vital for stronger cities and regions
          + EU and international agreements: have diplomats given in to
            Eurocrats?
     * Technology

Technology
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Artificial Intelligence
          + Competition
          + Cybersecurity
          + Data &amp; Privacy
          + Digital inclusion
          + Disinformation
          + eGovernance
          + Gig economy
          + Industrial Strategy
          + Law enforcement
          + Media
          + Next generation infrastructure
          + Platforms
          + Research &amp; Innovation
          + Telecom

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + The health of Europe’s telecom sector
          + Empowerment and protection: Building digital citizenship in
            the EU
          + Short-term rental: upcoming rules and existing trends

Promoted Content
          + Towards Sovereign AI: Europe´s greatest challenge?
          + Parliament and Council Can Still Prevent an Own Goal on SEPs
          + To be the fastest in the global tech race, one set of rules is
            better than 27
     * Transport

Transport
         ______________________________________________________________

          + Alternative &amp; renewable fuels
          + Aviation
          + Biofuels
          + Freight
          + Fuels
          + Future of mobility
          + Maritime
          + Railways
          + Road transport
          + Space
          + Transport Brief
          + Urban mobility

Featured Content
         ______________________________________________________________

Special Reports
          + Displacing fossil fuels in Europe’s transport sector
          + Will biofuels have a role in EU transport decarbonisation?

Events
          + 12 December - Decarbonising shipping – What role can climate
            labels play?

Promoted Content
          + New multimodal infrastructure in CEE region to help EU meet
            its transport goals
          + Sustainable Journey: Navigating the Future of Aviation
          + Harnessing waste &amp; advanced biodiesel: a sustainable voyage
            for the maritime sector

    1. Home
    2. Opinions
    3. Technology
    4. Artificial Intelligence: opening doors to a more diverse,
       equitable, and inclusive labour market

Artificial Intelligence: opening doors to a more diverse, equitable, and
inclusive labour market

   DISCLAIMER: All opinions in this column reflect the views of the
   author(s), not of EURACTIV Media network.

   By Andrew King | World Employment Confederation-Europe
   Est. 5min

   22-11-2023 (updated: 27-11-2023 )
   Content-Type:
   (BUTTON) Advertiser Content

   Advertiser Content An Article that an external entity has paid to place
   or to produce to its specifications. Includes advertorials, sponsored
   content, native advertising and other paid content.

   Team,Of,Diverse,Businesspeople,Having,A,Meeting,In,A,Transparent [Jacob
   Lund/Shutterstock]
   [Trust-Mark-400.webp] Euractiv is part of the Trust Project >gt;>gt;>gt;

   Print Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn WhatsApp Telegram

   The age of Artificial Intelligence (AI) has arrived, and with it the
   potential to improve the way we live and work. As several jurisdictions
   around the world start to regulate the use of AI – with the European
   Union taking the lead with the most comprehensive set of rules to be
   adopted – the HR services industry is becoming increasingly concerned
   that misguided and possibly harmful regulation will not only slow
   innovative development but also close the door to the possibilities
   that AI holds for workers and employers.

   Andrew King is Public Affairs Manager at World Employment
   Confederation.

   At its core, AI is simply a tool that, when used ethically and
   effectively, has vast promise for creating opportunities for people and
   businesses alike. With the assistance of AI, workers can better develop
   skills throughout their career, while the currently untapped skills of
   countless workers looking to enter the workforce are recognised.

   The HR services industry plays a central role in contributing to the
   global economy and social fabric by ensuring that people are at the
   heart of labour markets. Far from viewing AI as a threat to jobs, we
   see it as a job creator and an equalizer throughout society. With the
   help of AI the labour market can be opened further to underrepresented
   groups, creating greater diversity, gender equity, inclusion, and a
   more responsive approach to the ways people want to work and live.

   Through the use of AI, the future of work is bright. However, to make
   that future a reality, fair regulation is needed to allow for
   innovation and experimentation. As the European Union (EU) finalises
   its discussions on the AI Act, members of the World Employment
   Confederation (WEC) ’s)’sC’sE’sW’sare becoming increasingly concerned
   that misguided and possibly harmful regulation will not only slow
   innovative development but could close the door to the possibilities
   that AI holds for workers and employers.

   What is clear is that AI as a whole cannot be simply categorised. With
   the EU leaning toward classifying AI in employment services as
   high-risk, WEC members view such a position as unwarranted and
   detrimental to the industry. It is clear that AI use within and across
   industries differs a great deal. From chatbots, ranking, to training
   and skilling, having a single risk category for all profiles means no
   risk distinction can be made.

   Furthermore, with the scope of AI being incredibly broad, the HR
   industry is focused on taking a responsible and narrow approach to its
   use. Specifically, the industry welcomes polices that require AI
   vendors to prove their algorithms used to make hiring decisions are
   free of bias. To reassure policy makers, WEC members are already
   carrying out algorithmic risk assessments to align with the possible
   final text of the AI Act to ensure that people’s fundamental rights are
   protected.

   When relying on staffing databases to develop AI algorithms, key to
   best matching candidates with jobs, major staffing companies already
   operate under the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules
   and expect those same conditions to transfer to the use of AI. Beyond
   data protection, WEC members are looking forward to receiving formal
   technical references and checklists for the development and use of
   algorithms together with the opportunity of using regulatory sandboxes
   to test them in safe, yet innovative environments.

   The introduction of AI in our lives is no longer a question of if and
   when, but of how best it can be utilized. With the ethical development
   of AI use within the HR services industry, the global and European
   labour and skills shortage can be finally addressed. Through the use of
   AI our industry will be better adept at identifying and matching the
   skills required for today, while improving the kinds of training
   programmes needed to help workers upskill and transition to tomorrow’s
   green economy.

   In order for AI to become part of the answer to filling today’s labour
   gaps and preparing the workforce of the future, it must be guided by a
   human-centred approach, and those people behind its use must be in
   control to safely experiment to avert unexpected harm while striving to
   improve the lives of individuals and society.

   As outlined in the WEC Code of Ethical Principles in the use of
   Artificial Intelligence facilitate their journey through the world of
   work, supporting both workers and employers. When applied to HR
   services, AI can make a significant contribution to increasing
   diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout Europe and around the world
   and we hope the EU AI Act will help make that a reality.

   Print Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn WhatsApp Telegram

Topics

     * AI Act
     * AI ethics
     * employment
     * Industry
     * labour
     * promoted
     * Technology

Supporters

     * WEC Europe

From Twitter

   Tweets by @WECeurope
   Follow @WECeurope

Subscribe to our newsletters

   Subscribe
     __________________________________________________________________

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     __________________________________________________________________

About Euractiv

     * About
     * Mediahuis
     * Press Releases
     * Subscribe to The Brief
     * Submit an Opinion
     * Newsletters

Communication Services

     * Communication Services at a glance
     * Advertising at EURACTIV
     * EURACTIV Events
     * Euractor Membership
     * Multimedia at EURACTIV
     * EURACTIV European Public Projects
     * Yellow Academy
     * Moderations
     * EURACTIV Intelligence
     __________________________________________________________________

EURACTIV Network
     __________________________________________________________________

   © 1999 - 2023 | Efficacité et Transparence des Acteurs Européens.
   EURACTIV MEDIA NETWORK BV. | Terms and Conditions | Cookie Policy |
   Privacy Policy | Contact us
   (BUTTON) ×

Search

   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Close (BUTTON) Search

   © 1999 - 2023 | Efficacité et Transparence des Acteurs Européens.
   EURACTIV MEDIA NETWORK BV. | Terms and Conditions | Cookie Policy |
   Privacy Policy | Contact us
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-55">
<text>
   [bottom_separator.png]
   [bottom_trans_spacer.png]

       DOSarrest Internet Security is a cloud based fully managed DDoS
    protection service. This request has been blocked by DOSarrest due to
    the above violation. If you believe you are getting blocked in error
   please contact the administrator of this website to resolve this issue.
                DOSarrest Internet Security | DDoS Protection

   [bottom_trans_spacer.png]
   [bottom_trans_spacer.png] [bottom_trans_spacer.png]
   [bottom_trans_spacer.png]

   463
   You DOSarrest
   Protection   Host

                          [bottom_trans_spacer.png]

   ID:
   |
   Your IP Address:
   |
   Timestamp:

                          [bottom_trans_spacer.png]

     463 Restricted Client: This resource is not available for access by
   your client software. This request has been blocked. Please retry your
                      request from a different client.

       DOSarrest Internet Security is a cloud based fully managed DDoS
    protection service. This request has been blocked by DOSarrest due to
    the above violation. If you believe you are getting blocked in error
              please contact the administrator of this website
                           to resolve this issue.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-5">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate

     * ABOUT 10xDS
     * CAREERS

   connect@10xds.com
   ____________________
   (BUTTON)

   Exponential Digital Solutions Exponential Digital Solutions Exponential
   Digital Solutions
     * Home
     * Our Services
          + AAA
               o Intelligent Automation
               o Analytics
               o Artificial Intelligence
                    # Computer Vision
                    # Chatbot
          + Cybersecurity
               o SOC as a Service
               o MDR as a Service
               o CCC Program
          + Innovation
               o Microsoft Services
               o MS Power Platform
               o Process Discovery
               o Blockchain
          + WAM
               o Ecommerce
               o Web App
               o Mobile App
          + Digital Agency
     * Solutions
          + Industry
               o Banking and Financial Services
               o Insurance
               o Telecom
               o Healthcare
               o Shared Services
               o Oil &amp; Gas
               o Retail
               o Logistics
               o Food and Beverage
               o Manufacturing
               o Hospitality
               o Supply Chain Automation Solutions
          + Function
               o Customer Service
               o Finance and Accounting
               o IT Operations
               o Operations
               o Human Resources
               o Digital Tax
               o Digital Legal Services
          + Products
               o Contract Management
     * Company
          + Partners
               o UiPath
               o Blue Prism
               o Automation Anywhere
               o Microsoft
               o Yellow.ai
               o Soroco
          + About Us
          + Careers
          + Locations
               o India
               o UAE
               o Bahrain
               o Kuwait
               o Qatar
               o Oman
               o Saudi Arabia
               o USA
               o New Zealand
     * Insights
          + Blog
          + Curve
          + Webinars
          + Thought Leadership
          + Case Studies
          + Newsroom
          + Brochures
          + Events
          + Videos
          + EBook
     * Contact Us
     * Ask our experts

   Exponential Digital Solutions Exponential Digital Solutions Exponential
   Digital Solutions

     * Home
     * Our Services
          + AAA
               o Intelligent Automation
               o Analytics
               o Artificial Intelligence
                    # Computer Vision
                    # Chatbot
          + Cybersecurity
               o SOC as a Service
               o MDR as a Service
               o CCC Program
          + Innovation
               o Microsoft Services
               o MS Power Platform
               o Process Discovery
               o Blockchain
          + WAM
               o Ecommerce
               o Web App
               o Mobile App
          + Digital Agency
     * Solutions
          + Industry
               o Banking and Financial Services
               o Insurance
               o Telecom
               o Healthcare
               o Shared Services
               o Oil &amp; Gas
               o Retail
               o Logistics
               o Food and Beverage
               o Manufacturing
               o Hospitality
               o Supply Chain Automation Solutions
          + Function
               o Customer Service
               o Finance and Accounting
               o IT Operations
               o Operations
               o Human Resources
               o Digital Tax
               o Digital Legal Services
          + Products
               o Contract Management
     * Company
          + Partners
               o UiPath
               o Blue Prism
               o Automation Anywhere
               o Microsoft
               o Yellow.ai
               o Soroco
          + About Us
          + Careers
          + Locations
               o India
               o UAE
               o Bahrain
               o Kuwait
               o Qatar
               o Oman
               o Saudi Arabia
               o USA
               o New Zealand
     * Insights
          + Blog
          + Curve
          + Webinars
          + Thought Leadership
          + Case Studies
          + Newsroom
          + Brochures
          + Events
          + Videos
          + EBook
     * Contact Us
     * Ask our experts

   Mobile Logo

     * Home
     * Our Services
          + AAA
               o Intelligent Automation
               o Analytics
               o Artificial Intelligence
                    # Computer Vision
                    # Chatbot
          + Cybersecurity
               o SOC as a Service
               o MDR as a Service
               o CCC Program
          + Innovation
               o Microsoft Services
               o MS Power Platform
               o Process Discovery
               o Blockchain
          + WAM
               o Ecommerce
               o Web App
               o Mobile App
          + Digital Agency
     * Solutions
          + Industry
               o Banking and Financial Services
               o Insurance
               o Telecom
               o Healthcare
               o Shared Services
               o Oil &amp; Gas
               o Retail
               o Logistics
               o Food and Beverage
               o Manufacturing
               o Hospitality
               o Supply Chain Automation Solutions
          + Function
               o Customer Service
               o Finance and Accounting
               o IT Operations
               o Operations
               o Human Resources
               o Digital Tax
               o Digital Legal Services
          + Products
               o Contract Management
     * Company
          + Partners
               o UiPath
               o Blue Prism
               o Automation Anywhere
               o Microsoft
               o Yellow.ai
               o Soroco
          + About Us
          + Careers
          + Locations
               o India
               o UAE
               o Bahrain
               o Kuwait
               o Qatar
               o Oman
               o Saudi Arabia
               o USA
               o New Zealand
     * Insights
          + Blog
          + Curve
          + Webinars
          + Thought Leadership
          + Case Studies
          + Newsroom
          + Brochures
          + Events
          + Videos
          + EBook
     * Contact Us
     * Ask our experts

   TOP

Top 10 Benefits of Artificial Intelligence (AI)

   Top 10 benefits of artificial intelligence (AI)
   blog, AI, Insights

Top 10 Benefits of Artificial Intelligence (AI)

   By 10xDS Team
   August 30, 2020
   10.11k

   Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been around for quite some time now.
   From quick suggestions on search engines and auto-focus in smartphones
   to robot greeters at shopping centers and vehicle cruise control, AI is
   increasingly becoming a part of our day-to-day lives. By integrating AI
   solutions into every aspect of the business, organizations can optimize
   operations, gain a competitive edge and ultimately accelerate growth.
   The scope for innovation and development in AI is enormous and it will
   continue changing the world in diverse ways in the future.

   Below are the 10 most remarkable benefits of Artificial Intelligence
   that are helping to reshape the world that we know of today.

Top 10 Benefits of AI for Your Business

1. Automation

   Automation is one of the most commonly cited benefits of AI technology,
   and it has had significant impacts on the communications,
   transportation, consumer products, and service industries. Automation
   not just leads to higher production rates and increased productivity in
   these sectors but also allows more efficient use of raw materials,
   improved product quality, reduced lead times, and superior safety.
   Automation can also help to free resources that can be used for more
   important things.

2. Smart Decision Making

   Artificial Intelligence has always been used for making smarter
   business decisions. AI technology can coordinate data delivery, analyze
   trends, develop data consistency, provide forecasts, and quantify
   uncertainties to make the best decisions for the company. As long as AI
   is not programmed to imitate human emotions, it will remain unbiased on
   the matter at hand and will help to make the right decision to support
   business efficiency.

3. Enhanced Customer Experience

   AI-powered solutions can help businesses to respond to customer queries
   and grievances quickly and address the situations efficiently. The use
   of chatbots that couple conversational AI with Natural Language
   Processing technology can generate highly personalized messages for
   customers, which helps to find the best solution for their needs. AI
   tools can also help to reduce the strain from the customer service
   staff, which will lead to better productivity.

4. Medical Advances

   The use of Artificial Intelligence solutions in the healthcare sector
   is becoming increasingly popular these days. Remote patient monitoring
   technology, for instance, allows healthcare providers to perform
   clinical diagnoses and suggest treatments quickly without requiring the
   patient to visit the hospital in-person. AI can also be beneficial in
   monitoring the progression of contagious diseases and even predict
   their future effects and outcomes.

5. Research and Data Analysis

   AI and Machine Learning technology can be used to analyze data much
   more efficiently. It can help to create predictive models and
   algorithms to process data and understand the potential outcomes of
   different trends and scenarios. Moreover, the advanced computing
   capabilities of AI can also speed up the processing and analysis of
   data for research and development, which could have taken too long for
   humans to review and understand.

6. Solving Complex Problems

   The developments in AI technologies from basic Machine Learning to
   advanced Deep Learning models have made it capable to solve complex
   issues. From fraud detection and personalized customer interactions to
   weather forecasting and medical diagnosis, AI is helping businesses
   across industries to find the right solutions to address their
   challenges more adequately. Greater efficiency in solving complex
   problems means increased productivity and reduced expenses.

7. Business Continuity

   Business forecasting using AI technology not only helps companies make
   critical decisions but also prepares them for any emergency to ensure
   business continuity. As risk management heavily relies on data
   management and analysis today, AI-powered tools can help organizations
   to respond to the crisis proactively. AI and Machine Learning can also
   create scenarios to help businesses plan for a speedy disaster recovery
   strategy.

8. Managing Repetitive Tasks

   Performing recurring business tasks is not just time-consuming but it
   can also be monotonous and reduce the productivity of the employees
   over time. AI-powered Robotic Process Automation tools can automate
   interactions between different business systems and make the tiresome
   work easy for the company. It can imitate the actions of humans within
   the digital systems in the HR, IT, marketing, or sales departments to
   execute any business process quickly without needing any manual effort.

9. Minimizing Errors

   Another great benefit of automating regular business tasks using AI
   tools is that it helps to reduce the chances of manual errors. As
   Robotic Process Automation tools take care of the data entry and
   processing jobs, it can make the digital systems more efficient and
   less likely to run into or create any problems due to data processing
   mistakes. This can be especially beneficial for businesses that cannot
   afford to make even the slightest of errors.

10. Increased Business Efficiency

   Artificial Intelligence can help to ensure 24-hour service availability
   and will deliver the same performance and consistency throughout the
   day. Taking care of repetitive tasks will not make AI tools get tired
   or bored either. This can help to improve the efficiency of the
   business and reduce the stress on the employees, who can be re-assigned
   to perform more complex business tasks that require manual
   intervention.

Conclusion

   There are many more benefits of Artificial Intelligence that span from
   space exploration to advancements in defence systems and more. The
   technology is evolving steadily, and it has the potential to be more
   intelligent than ever. While there is no surefire way of predicting the
   future of AI, it will certainly continue benefitting businesses and
   end-users in their everyday lives.

   Talk to our expert team to help you with the perfect AI technology
   adoption that suits the needs of your business to accelerate growth,
   optimize the team, and enhance individual performance.
   Tags:
   AI Benefits
   Share:
     *
     *
     *

Talk to our experts and identify opportunities for digital transformation

   Ask our experts now

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE

   Revolutionizing Content Marketing Strategies through AI
   blog, Digital, Digital Marketing

Revolutionizing Content Marketing Strategies through AI

   July 25, 2023
   What is AI Trust, Risk, and Security Management?
   blog, AI

What is AI Trust, Risk, and Security Management?

   March 24, 2023

Follow Us

Latest Blogs

     *

Revolutionizing Procurement: A Robotic Transformation
       November 27, 2023
     *

Third-Party Risk Management – Safeguarding Digital Collaborations through
Cyber Resilience
       November 24, 2023
     *

The Generative AI Revolution in Supply Chain Operations
       November 20, 2023
     *

Revolutionize Your Enterprise: Unleashing AI-Infused Automation for Rapid ROI
Acceleration
       November 15, 2023
     *

Key Cybersecurity Threats Unveiled for 2024
       November 1, 2023
     *

Powering Healthcare Digital Transformation with Power Apps
       October 25, 2023

Digital Transformation: Procure to Pay [eBook]

   Digital Transformation of Procure to Pay Process

   Transform Procure to Pay process by embracing emerging technologies
   such as Intelligent Automation and Advanced Analytics and gather
   efficiency gains
   GET YOUR COPY NOW!

   ABOUT 10xDS

   Exponential Digital Solutions (10xDS) is a new age organization where
   traditional consulting converges with digital technologies and
   innovative solutions. We are committed towards partnering with clients
   to help them realize their most important goals by harnessing a blend
   of automation, analytics, AI and all that’s “New” in the emerging
   exponential technologies.

   OUR SERVICES
     * AAA
          + Intelligent Automation
          + Analytics
          + Artificial Intelligence
     * Cybersecurity and IT Risk Assurance
     * Innovation and incubation

   SOLUTIONS

   INDUSTRIES
     * Banking and Financial
     * Insurance
     * Telecom
     * Healthcare

   FUNCTIONS
     * Customer Service
     * Finance and Accounting
     * IT Operations
     * Operations
     * Human Resources

   CONTACT US

   connect@10xds.com

   FIND US ON
   GoodFirms Badge

   OUR GLOBAL OFFICE LOCATIONS
   UAE
   11th Floor, Al Wahda
   Commercial Tower,
   Hazza bin Zayed 1st Street,
   Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
   Bahrain
   Office No. 1015,
   Building No. 361,
   Road 1705, Block 317,
   Diplomatic Area,
   Manama, Bahrain
   India
   Module 1, Lower Ground Floor,
   Park Centre,
   Technopark, Trivandrum
   Kerala, India - 695 581
   USA
   PO Box 5466,
   Tallahassee,
   FL 32314,
   USA

   View All Locations
     * Home
     * Our Partners
     * Careers
     * Blog
     * Success Stories
     * Privacy Policy
     * Sitemap

   Copyright © 2021 Exponential Digital Solutions. Developed by Imajine

   Manage Cookie Consent
   We use cookies to analyse our traffic, know your preferences and more.
   For more information, please read our Cookie policy | Privacy Policy
   Functional cookies [ ] Functional cookies Always active
   The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the
   legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly
   requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of
   carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic
   communications network.
   Preferences [ ] Preferences
   The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose
   of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or
   user.
   Statistics [ ] Statistics
   The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for
   statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used
   exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena,
   voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or
   additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved
   for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
   Marketing [ ] Marketing
   The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to
   send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several
   websites for similar marketing purposes.
   Manage options Manage services Manage vendors Read more about these
   purposes
   (BUTTON) Accept (BUTTON) Deny (BUTTON) View preferences (BUTTON) Save
   preferences View preferences
   {title} {title} {title}

   (BUTTON) Manage consent
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-6">
<text>
   #Medium alternate

   Open in app

   Sign up

   Sign in
   ____________________
   Write

   Sign up

   Sign in
   (BUTTON)

Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence

   sunil kumar
   Towards Data Science

   sunil kumar
   ·

   Follow
   Published in

   Towards Data Science
   ·
   5 min read
   ·
   Nov 25, 2019

   --
   (BUTTON)

   9
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)

   Listen
   (BUTTON)

   Share

   Artificial Intelligence is one of the emerging technologies which tries
   to simulate human reasoning in AI systems. John McCarthy invented the
   term Artificial Intelligence in the year 1950.

   He said, ‘Every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence
   can in principle be so precisely described that a machine can be made
   to simulate it. An attempt will be made to find how to make machines
   use language, form abstractions, and concepts, solve kinds of problems
   now reserved for humans, and improve themselves.’

   Artificial Intelligence is the ability of a computer program to learn
   and think. Everything can be considered Artificial intelligence if it
   involves a program doing something that we would normally think would
   rely on the intelligence of a human.

   The advantages of Artificial intelligence applications are enormous and
   can revolutionize any professional sector. Let’s see some of them

   1) Reduction in Human Error:

   The phrase “human error” was born because humans make mistakes from
   time to time. Computers, however, do not make these mistakes if they
   are programmed properly. With Artificial intelligence, the decisions
   are taken from the previously gathered information applying a certain
   set of algorithms. So errors are reduced and the chance of reaching
   accuracy with a greater degree of precision is a possibility.

   Example: In Weather Forecasting using AI they have reduced the majority
   of human error.

   2) Takes risks instead of Humans:

   This is one of the biggest advantages of Artificial intelligence. We
   can overcome many risky limitations of humans by developing an AI Robot
   which in turn can do the risky things for us. Let it be going to mars,
   defuse a bomb, explore the deepest parts of oceans, mining for coal and
   oil, it can be used effectively in any kind of natural or man-made
   disasters.

   Example: Have you heard about the Chernobyl nuclear power plant
   explosion in Ukraine? At that time there were no AI-powered robots that
   can help us to minimize the effect of radiation by controlling the fire
   in early stages, as any human went close to the core was dead in a
   matter of minutes. They eventually poured sand and boron from
   helicopters from a mere distance.

   AI Robots can be used in such situations where intervention can be
   hazardous.

   3) Available 24x7:

   An Average human will work for 4–6 hours a day excluding the breaks.
   Humans are built in such a way to get some time out for refreshing
   themselves and get ready for a new day of work and they even have
   weekly offed to stay intact with their work-life and personal life. But
   using AI we can make machines work 24x7 without any breaks and they
   don’t even get bored, unlike humans.

   Example: Educational Institutes and Helpline centers are getting many
   queries and issues which can be handled effectively using AI.

   4) Helping in Repetitive Jobs:

   In our day-to-day work, we will be performing many repetitive works
   like sending a thanking mail, verifying certain documents for errors
   and many more things. Using artificial intelligence we can productively
   automate these mundane tasks and can even remove “boring” tasks for
   humans and free them up to be increasingly creative.

   Example: In banks, we often see many verifications of documents to get
   a loan which is a repetitive task for the owner of the bank. Using AI
   Cognitive Automation the owner can speed up the process of verifying
   the documents by which both the customers and the owner will be
   benefited.

   5) Digital Assistance:

   Some of the highly advanced organizations use digital assistants to
   interact with users which saves the need for human resources. The
   digital assistants also used in many websites to provide things that
   users want. We can chat with them about what we are looking for. Some
   chatbots are designed in such a way that it’s become hard to determine
   that we’re chatting with a chatbot or a human being.

   Example: We all know that organizations have a customer support team
   that needs to clarify the doubts and queries of the customers. Using AI
   the organizations can set up a Voice bot or Chatbot which can help
   customers with all their queries. We can see many organizations already
   started using them on their websites and mobile applications.

   6) Faster Decisions:

   Using AI alongside other technologies we can make machines take
   decisions faster than a human and carry out actions quicker. While
   taking a decision human will analyze many factors both emotionally and
   practically but AI-powered machine works on what it is programmed and
   delivers the results in a faster way.

   Example: We all have played Chess games in Windows. It is nearly
   impossible to beat CPU in the hard mode because of the AI behind that
   game. It will take the best possible step in a very short time
   according to the algorithms used behind it.

   7) Daily Applications:

   Daily applications such as Apple’s Siri, Window’s Cortana, Google’s OK
   Google are frequently used in our daily routine whether it is for
   searching a location, taking a selfie, making a phone call, replying to
   a mail and many more.

   Example: Around 20 years ago, when we are planning to go somewhere we
   used to ask a person who already went there for the directions. But now
   all we have to do is say “OK Google where is Visakhapatnam”. It will
   show you Visakhapatnam’s location on google map and the best path
   between you and Visakhapatnam.

   8) New Inventions:

   AI is powering many inventions in almost every domain which will help
   humans solve the majority of complex problems.

   Example: Recently doctors can predict breast cancer in the woman at
   earlier stages using advanced AI-based technologies.

   As every bright side has a darker version in it. Artificial
   Intelligence also has some disadvantages. Let’s see some of them

   1) High Costs of Creation:

   As AI is updating every day the hardware and software need to get
   updated with time to meet the latest requirements. Machines need
   repairing and maintenance which need plenty of costs. It’ s creation
   requires huge costs as they are very complex machines.

   2) Making Humans Lazy:

   AI is making humans lazy with its applications automating the majority
   of the work. Humans tend to get addicted to these inventions which can
   cause a problem to future generations.

   3) Unemployment:

   As AI is replacing the majority of the repetitive tasks and other works
   with robots,human interference is becoming less which will cause a
   major problem in the employment standards. Every organization is
   looking to replace the minimum qualified individuals with AI robots
   which can do similar work with more efficiency.

   4) No Emotions:

   There is no doubt that machines are much better when it comes to
   working efficiently but they cannot replace the human connection that
   makes the team. Machines cannot develop a bond with humans which is an
   essential attribute when comes to Team Management.

   5) Lacking Out of Box Thinking:

   Machines can perform only those tasks which they are designed or
   programmed to do, anything out of that they tend to crash or give
   irrelevant outputs which could be a major backdrop.

   SUMMARY:

   These are some advantages and disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence.
   Every new invention or breakthrough will have both, but we as humans
   need to take care of that and use the positive sides of the invention
   to create a better world. Artificial intelligence has massive potential
   advantages. The key for humans will ensure the “rise of the robots”
   doesn’t get out of hand. Some people also say that Artificial
   intelligence can destroy human civilization if it goes into the wrong
   hands. But still, none of the AI applications made at that scale that
   can destroy or enslave humanity.
   Artificial Intelligence
   Machine Learning
   Data Science
   Deep Learning
   Python

   --

   --
   (BUTTON)

   9
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   sunil kumar
   Towards Data Science
   Follow
   (BUTTON)

Written by sunil kumar

   151 Followers
   ·Writer for

   Towards Data Science

   Business minded machine learning engineer with proven ability to find
   hidden gems from different types of data.
   Follow
   (BUTTON)

More from sunil kumar and Towards Data Science

   Format function in Python
   sunil kumar

   sunil kumar

   in

   Towards Data Science

Format function in Python

Python’s str.format() technique of the string category permits you to try and
do variable substitutions and data formatting. This enables…

   (BUTTON)
   ·5 min read·May 6, 2020

   --

   Exposing the Power of the Kalman Filter
   Jimmy Weaver

   Jimmy Weaver

   in

   Towards Data Science

Exposing the Power of the Kalman Filter

As a data scientist we are occasionally faced with situations where we need
to model a trend to predict future values. Whilst there is a…

   17 min read·Nov 7

   --

   11

   The New Best Python Package for Visualising Network Graphs
   Benjamin Lee

   Benjamin Lee

   in

   Towards Data Science

The New Best Python Package for Visualising Network Graphs

A guide on who should use it, when to use it, how to use it, and why I was
wrong before…

   (BUTTON)
   ·10 min read·6 days ago

   --

   9

   Exploratory Data Analysis …topic that is neglected in data Science
   Projects
   sunil kumar

   sunil kumar

   in

   Towards Data Science

Exploratory Data Analysis …topic that is neglected in data Science Projects

Exploratory Data Analysis

   8 min read·Nov 22, 2019

   --

   1
   See all from sunil kumar
   See all from Towards Data Science

Recommended from Medium

   I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle
   Paul Rose

   Paul Rose

I Found A Very Profitable AI Side Hustle

And it’s perfect for beginners

   6 min read·Oct 18

   --

   207

   The ChatGPT Hype Is Over — Now Watch How Google Will Kill ChatGPT.
   AL Anany

   AL Anany

The ChatGPT Hype Is Over — Now Watch How Google Will Kill ChatGPT.

It never happens instantly. The business game is longer than you know.

   (BUTTON)
   ·6 min read·Sep 1

   --

   603

Lists

Predictive Modeling w/ Python

   20 stories·649 saves
   Principal Component Analysis for ML
   Time Series Analysis
   deep learning cheatsheet for beginner

Practical Guides to Machine Learning

   10 stories·729 saves

Natural Language Processing

   917 stories·431 saves

ChatGPT

   22 stories·286 saves

   The Potential Risks and Benefits of Artificial General Intelligence
   (AGI)
   TheTechPencil

   TheTechPencil

   in

   𝐀𝐈 𝐦𝐨𝐧𝐤𝐬.𝐢𝐨

The Potential Risks and Benefits of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI)

Navigating the Future of AGI: A Balanced Approach to Harnessing Power and
Mitigating Risks

   (BUTTON)
   ·4 min read·Jun 21

   --

   Welcome To Hell, OpenAI
   Colin Fraser

   Colin Fraser

Welcome To Hell, OpenAI

Nilay Patel wrote a clairvoyant piece in The Verge shortly after Elon Musk
bought Twitter called Welcome to hell, Elon, welcoming Elon Musk…

   10 min read·Feb 2

   --

   21

   NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!
   The Pareto Investor

   The Pareto Investor

NASA Just Shut Down Quantum Computer After Something Insane Happened!

Houston, We Have a Problem!

   (BUTTON)
   ·3 min read·Nov 9

   --

   146

   Regression algorithms
   Arun Kumar Pandey (Ph.D., Astrophysics)

   Arun Kumar Pandey (Ph.D., Astrophysics)

Regression algorithms

Regression algorithms are a type of machine learning algorithm used to
predict numerical values based on input data. Regression algorithms…

   5 min read·Jun 22

   --
   See more recommendations

   Help

   Status

   About

   Careers

   Blog

   Privacy

   Terms

   Text to speech

   Teams
</text>
</page> §
</lang>
